
I started a petition with my friend’s permission to end her suspension and to take disciplinary action instead on the student who had taken racist actions in the first place. Of the 1000 students at my high school, over 200 signed, a number that far exceeded my expectation. When I shared the results with my friend, she said to me, “Because of who you are, you will always have supporters. Use your power to do good.”

Since then, I have tried to be more aware that not everyone experiences comfort in the same environments that I do. Rather than assume everyone feels safe and supported, it’s best to create space to listen and to ask how you can be supportive. My friend and I created a club to foster cross-cultural dialogue. In the past year two other clubs of its kind began at other local schools. More than anything I am proud that I have learned to be a better friend and a more thoughtful community member in a way that honors who I am and what I value.

I held my breath as my steady hands gently nestled the crumbly roots of the lettuce plant into the soil trench that I shoveled moments before. Rainwater and sweat dripped from my brow as I meticulously patted and pressed the surrounding earth, stamping the leafy green creature into its new home. After rubbing the gritty soil off of my hands, I looked at Brian, a co-volunteer and nonverbal 20-year-old with autism, who extended his arm for a high-five. In the year that I’ve been working with him, I’ve watched him revel in planting, nurturing, and eventually harvesting his veggies, especially the grape tomatoes, which we enjoy eating fresh off the vine! Upon walking to the next row of hollowed cavities, we were not contemplating the lengthy work that lay ahead, but rather, we sought to liberate the helpless lettuces, imprisoned in produce cartons that were too small for them to grow in. Finally, after taking a step back to admire the day’s last plant, my chest swelled as a wave of contentment flushed through my body.

My love for gardening began when I moved to Georgia during my sophomore year. In the time I’ve spent learning how to garden, I’ve developed an affinity for watching my vegetables grow to maturity, eager to be harvested and sold at the Saturday market. Though many see gardening as tedious busywork, I find it meditative, as I lose track of time while combining peat moss and soil in the garden’s compost mixer. Saturday morning garden work has become a weekend ritual, ridding me of all extraneous responsibilities. My body goes into autopilot as I let my mind wander. I don’t actively focus on focusing, but rather I observe myself internally digest the week’s events. I’m a bystander to fireworks of thought that explode in my mind as my perception of important matters becomes trivial. Sometimes, it’s the physics midterm that suddenly seems less daunting or the deadlines I need to meet for my Spanish project that push back farther. Other times, I contemplate alternative endings to conversations or make perfect sense of the calculus answer that was at the tip of my tongue in class.

I met Brian, a close friend of mine who also basks in the tranquility of nature, through my gardening endeavors. While we aren’t able to communicate verbally, we speak the language of earth, water, peat, and seedlings. He doesn’t speak with words, but his face tells stories of newly found purpose and acceptance, a pleasant contrast to the typical condescension and babying he feels by those who don’t think he’s capable of independent thought.

Throughout my time in the garden with Brian, I began to understand that he, like everyone, has a particular method of communicating. There are the obvious spoken languages, body languages, facial expressions, and interactions we share on a day-to-day basis that reflect who we are and communicate what we represent. Brian expresses himself through various manifestations of unspoken language that he uses to signal how he feels or what he wants. But the nuanced combinations of different methods of communicating are oftentimes overlooked, raising a barrier to mutual understanding that prevents one from being capable of truly connecting with others. I began to understand that in order to reach people, I have to speak in their language, be it verbally or otherwise. Working with Brian over the past year has made me more aware that people can have difficulty expressing themselves. I found that I can positively lead people if I can communicate with them, whether on the track or in my Jewish youth group discussions. As I move into the next phases of my life, I hope to bring these skills with me because, in order to effectuate positive change in my community, I learned that I must speak in the language of those around me. Those are the words Brian taught me.

It felt like I threw myself out of a plane without a parachute. My eyes firmly shut, I feared for my life as I plummeted towards the ground. In hindsight, perhaps half coming out at a public restaurant wasn’t the brightest idea. Then again, living as the half-closeted queer kid meant that I was all too familiar with intimidating situations.

I asked my mom: “What would you do if I had a girlfriend?” She instantly replied that she couldn’t understand. Immediately, my heart dropped and the emotional free fall began. She explained that Americans choose to be gay for personal enjoyment, which in my Korean culture is an attitude that is severely frowned upon. I sat there like a statue, motionless and afraid to speak, blindly hurtling towards a hard reality I hadn’t expected. Rejection cut me deeply and I started to feel the itch of tears welling in my eyes, yet I had to contain myself. I couldn’t let the pain seep through my facade or else she would question why I cared. All I could do was keep looking down and shoveling food into my mouth, silently wishing I could just disappear. That night, I realized it would be a long time before I could fully come out to my mom. My eyes tightened as I continued to fall.

In the following weeks, I started noticing how discomfort played a natural part in my life. I recognized the anxious reactions of my classmates as I argued with my Christian friends when they said my queerness is a sin. I observed the judgmental glances my mentors gave me as I passionately disagreed with my conservative lab mates over my sister’s abortion. Eventually, my friends decided to censor certain topics of discussion, trying to avoid these situations altogether. I felt like vulnerability was the new taboo. People’s expressions and actions seemed to confine me, telling me to stop caring so much, to keep my eyes closed as I fall, so they didn’t have to watch.

Had others felt uncomfortable with me in the same way I had felt uncomfortable with my mom? Do they feel that our passions might uncover a chasm into which we all fall, unsure of the outcome?

Perhaps it was too raw, too emotional.

There was something about pure, uncensored passion during conflict that became too real. It made me, and the people around me, vulnerable, which was frightening. It made us think about things we didn’t want to consider, things branded too political, too dangerous. Shielding ourselves in discomfort was simply an easier way of living.

However, I’ve come to realize that it wasn’t my comfort, but rather, my discomfort that defined my life. My memories aren’t filled with times where life was simple, but moments where I was conflicted. It is filled with unexpected dinners and unusual conversations where I was uncertain. It is filled with the uncensored versions of my beliefs and the beliefs of others. It is filled with a purity that I shouldn’t have detained.

Now, I look forward to tough conversations with a newfound willingness to learn and listen, with an appreciation for uncertainty. I urge others to explore our discomfort together and embrace the messy emotions that accompany it. I try to make our collective discomfort more navigable. Since that dinner, my relationship with my mother is still in free fall. It’s dangerous and frightening. Thankfully, the potentially perilous conversations I’ve had with my friends has given me a newfound appreciation for my own fear. I’ll admit, part of me still seeks to close my eyes, to hide in the safety I’ll find in silence. Yet, a larger part of me yearns to embrace the dangers around me as I fall through the sky. I may still be falling, but this time, I will open my eyes, and hopefully steer towards a better landing for both my mom and me.

"I sit in a hot SUV winding it’s way over a bumpy African road, a scarf protecting my nose and mouth as dust streams in through the window. Returning from a teaching session with the Maasai women, the other students' excited chatter dances around me as they discuss our invitation to the Maasai coming of age ceremony. The ceremony centres on the circumcision of pubescent males and females; often performed with a sharp rock and no anesthetic. It is a rite of passage for the Maasai. My stomach is a tight knot, picturing the children we met today and imagining the painful procedure they will soon undergo. The other students, excited about the feast and intricate costumes, hope that accepting the invitation will strengthen our bond with the community. I, however, am weighed down by a profound sense of unease when it comes to the main attraction, the circumcisions. Further, the leader of the organization is absent; should she not be consulted? Do I go along with the group, and participate in something that I am morally opposed to? Or do something about it?

For me, the strength of a person’s character is defined by their ability to act on their values and stand up for what they believe in. Having strong moral values only becomes a powerful agent of change when one is willing to follow through on them with action. Situations, such as this one, where I feel a sinking sensation deep in my gut, help to cue me to conflicts with my own values, prompting me to gather more information, thus taking the first step towards informed action.

In this situation, the knots in my stomach came from being asked to participate in the celebration of female genital mutilation; a practice which is decidedly against my personal values of reducing human suffering and promoting women’s rights. My visceral reaction came specifically from the idea of watching while doing nothing to intervene. Further, I worried that, as students, our group would be woefully ill-equipped to navigate the nuances of the situation, potentially resulting in harm to our relationship with the community. Plus, due to our association with a medical organization, our presence could be mis-interpreted as an endorsement of the safety of these procedures. With the potential to do harm and without an actionable plan in place for stopping genital mutilation, I concluded that I could not, in good conscience, attend the ceremony.

Though I had decided that I could not go, I still felt concerned about the potential impact of the group's attendance, and wanted to gain more insight into the situation before deciding on a course of action. I shared my concerns with my partner and another student. My partner agreed with me, and we decided to consult his physician father. We quickly learned that Canadian physicians are not legally permitted to condone female genital mutilation, meaning that our attending the ceremony could have legal ramifications for our physician-run organization. With this information in hand, I knew I had to contact the organization lead about the excursion. She forbid our group from attending, requesting that I inform the other students, who were obviously disappointed that I had 'gotten the trip cancelled'.

Though I believe my course of action was the right one and I would not change the outcome, looking back, I wish I had voiced my concerns earlier; it may have made the end result easier for the other students to swallow. In spite of this, being honest when expressing my discomfort with a situation and choosing an alternative course of action that is aligned with my values has never led me to make a decision that I regret. Though standing up for what you believe in, and doing what is right, is not always easy, it is always worth it, and arguably the only way of living a life without regrets."

It’s 4 a.m. and I’m bent over my computer screen. In front of me is one of the photographs I intend to submit for the Charles Lewin Digital Photo Essay Competition. It is a silhouette shot of a tall, smiling woman – my mother – framed against the backdrop of a gorgeous red sunset. Though I’d used the whip-pan technique to give the photo the same dynamic, inspiring, whirlwind energy I associate with my mother, it’s not quite right. I’ve been fiddling with the white balance and color pallet for hours, trying to capture the perfect amount of luminosity in my mother’s eyes. At that moment, my mother herself comes in, asking why I’m up so late on a school night. When I show her the picture, her eyes light up in exactly the way I’ve captured in the photo. That photo essay, capturing the beauty of three generations of women in my family, went on to win me first place in the competition. And yet the moment that I shall carry with me forever is the one from 4 a.m. that night. The moment when my mother’s eyes lit up in joy and wonder as she understood exactly what I was trying to say through my photography. In that moment, I knew for sure that I’d be chasing this feeling for the rest of my life.

Though that moment cemented my love for photography, I’ve been playing around with a camera since I was 5 years old, when my father first introduced me to his favorite hobby. I was a shy, quiet kid and photography allowed me to experience the world and communicate my feelings like I never could before. Most of our weekends were spent taking pictures, from micro nature photography on our camping trips to event photography for every community event. Even back then, I was constantly asking questions about why one picture looks better than another. I credit my father for helping me develop my photographic “eye”. The training of those early years helped me develop my sense of aesthetic placements, framing, and positioning.

To this day, I am obsessed with learning about the technical side of photography. I have a natural analytical bent of mind that exists along-side my artistic vision; and so, I gravitate towards understanding exactly how aperture, depth of field, shutter speed, exposure, composition, and white balance can be used as a tool of artistic control in photography. My favorite way to unwind is to read books and online articles about photography and techniques I’m currently obsessed with. I also love experimenting with different styles of photography. Though art photography is my passion, I spent a couple of years as the staff photographer for my high school newspaper. This foray into the journalistic arena helped to broaden my horizons and consider the social impact of photography.

Lately, I’ve become passionately interested in the philosophy and psychology of photography. There are two books that inspired this journey - “The Art of Photography” by Bruce Barnbaum and “Studio Anywhere” by Nick Fancher. These books led me to think deeply about the artistic merit and social impact of photography and inspired me to sign up as a volunteer photographer at the local community center. I remember when an older lady, a little self-conscious about her appearance, asked me to take a photo of her in her evening dress at a fund-raising event. When I showed her the photo I took, her expression transformed from anxiety and discomfort to pride and confidence, just like my mother on that fateful Tuesday night. That’s another moment of joy I’ll carry with me forever.

Alfred Stieglitz once said - “In photography there is a reality so subtle that it becomes more real than reality.” Every photographer has a vision of their own reality and the greatest joy I feel is when I successfully communicate this philosophy using my work. (648 words)

Growing up, I was your average troublesome kid. I rarely turned in homework on time, I frequently landed in detention, and I preferred video games to any other activity. This was me until the age of 14 – and that was when it all changed, thanks to Mr. Robert Brown. I was placed in Mr. Brown’s English Literature class in freshman year. Mr. Brown believed that every student could become interested in English Literature, given the right bait, and for me the bait was science fiction novels. He identified my nascent inclination towards science-based, fantasy worlds, based on my interest in video games, and handed me some choice works by Isaac Asimov, Ursula Le Guin, and Frank Herbert. In a matter of days, I was hooked.

Looking back, I can appreciate how deeply transformative that period of my life was. Science fiction fulfilled all of my natural inclinations towards an exploration of imagination and wonder within the limits of a rule-bounded world. At the same time, it awoke in me a deep and abiding interest in larger questions of philosophy, sociology, technology, and ethics. I had a new-found love for not only English Literature, but also Physics, Biology, Chemistry, and Math and my overall grades improved tremendously. I often took up projects for extra credit just so I could explore a particular new topic I was obsessed with. Specifically, I loved to take up parallel projects in different classes since I loved exploring two different sides of the same essential question. For instance, in my sophomore year, I wrote a paper on Darwinian Evolution in Mid-Century American Fiction for my English Literature class, while also working on an extra-credit class presentation on the Darwin’s Theory of Evolution for Biology. This kind of dual-natured exploration of topics is something I want to pursue throughout my life.

Over time, my interest in the fictional explorations of socio-scientific questions expanded to the real world. In particular, I developed an interest in biotechnology innovations such as gene-therapy, drug engineering, and agricultural biotechnology and I even started a YouTube channel to provide commentary on the latest scientific news. My scientific interests led me to real-world activism in my junior year when a biotechnology company came to our town to offer “free” genetic sequencing for the population. I organized an informational campaign highlighting their lax privacy and data protection terms. Thanks to our efforts, the company revised their terms to ensure greater privacy for the genetic information of all participants.

This experience sparked my interest in medical ethics as a career and I am now actively seeking an education that will allow me to pursue both the scientific and philosophical questions related to technology, society, and ethical limitations. I believe the Science & Technology Studies major at the Cornell College of Arts and Sciences offers a unique opportunity to pursue the holistic, balanced education I seek.

Though I know what I eventually want to major in, it is also particularly important to me to continue building my knowledge base in both humanities and sciences, before declaring my major. The holistic, balanced curriculum at your school allows me this freedom. At Cornell, I will have the chance to acquire philosophy AND biology mentors, interact with students who have varying subject matter interests, and complete an independent research study in any topic of my choosing.

It’s strange to think that just a few years ago, I cared about nothing more than my League of Legends avatar and Minecraft cohorts! And yet, that love for video games was the first step in my journey towards finding answers to the greatest socio-philosophical and scientific questions of our times. I hope Cornell College of Arts and Science can be the next step in that journey.

As captain of my high school basketball team, I have led my team to many hard-earned victories and a few crushing losses. Yet the most difficult moment of my football career took place off the field. It was the morning after our last game of the season, when Tyler, one of my classmates, approached me to ask for a favor. He said that a group he was a part of called the Hands-On organization were planning a new campaign that they’d love my support with, as captain of the football team – a campaign to request a different school mascot. You see, our school team was called the “Lincoln Indians” and our mascot was a stereotypical representation of an Indian. In our small town located in rural Montana, this has never even been recognized as an issue and initially, I, too, didn’t comprehend why it might be one. Tyler took the time to explain to me how it made him feel to see his identity masqueraded as a costume. It was a revelation to me to learn how traumatized he felt at every game. It was a brief conversation which made me re-think a lot of things I had taken for granted; ultimately, I was enlightened and humbled. Thanks to Tyler’s efforts, we have a new team mascot. As for me, I am now a member of the Hands-On organization myself, and I want to continue to use my voice to create awareness around the issues affecting minorities in our country

I was 14 when I met Jennifer at the local Literacy Volunteers and Advocates (LVA) chapter. At this time, I was going through the basic motions of volunteering without truly understanding the impact or significance of what I was doing. Jennifer was an immigrant from Mexico and attended my computer literacy class at LVA. She was one of the few new immigrants who could speak English fluently, and so she served as the unofficial translator at our LVA center. Once, I asked her if she didn’t find it annoying to always have to leave her own tasks and go running off to translate for other people. She told me that for her, it was a privilege to be able to do this for others and the biggest annoyances were the authority figures who displayed impatience, discrimination, and cruelty towards immigrants. Her words had a lasting impact on me and from that moment, I saw so many instances of inequity, cruelty, and injustice that I had not even registered before. At the same time, I recognized the potential I had to make a real difference in people’s lives. I decided to take on a full-time Spanish tutor and in a couple of years, I was near-fluent in Spanish. My life’s goal is to continue practicing my Spanish language skills through my undergraduate education and to eventually enact provisions in politics and society to counter the language barrier that so many immigrants face

I have always enjoyed my English Literature classes and Mrs. Sutherland’s junior year Lit class was no different. Our assigned reading was Pride and Prejudice by Jane Austen. It was my first Austen novel, and in fact, it was the first classic novel I had read from that historical period. I knew I’d enjoy the romantic story of the novel; what I didn’t expect was how the social structure of the novel would grip me as I deep-dived into it for our class. When Mrs. Sutherland gave us the freedom to write our English Lit finals paper about any topic, I chose to write about the social fabric of the Regency era. I was fascinated by how the Regency-era economic and military events formed the backdrop for Jane Austen’s social realism. This paper sparked my interest in social history as a field of study, and subsequently, I read as many books as I could about the social, cultural, and economic history of England. Each new topic I read about made me reflect on how social mores and day-to-day social rituals are formed as a result of the major economic, military, and business events of the time. That one semester of English Literature introduced me to a whole new world of learning, questioning, and debating, and eventually helped me define what I wish to study in college. Thank you Mrs. Sutherland

Dear future roommate,

The number one thing you should know about me is that I live in a state of organized chaos, both in my mind and outside it. For example, I love learning about new topics and my favorite way to learn is to read as much as I can while drinking copious cups of tea. Prepare to often see large piles of books about my latest hyper-obsession lying around!

Yes, I still like checking physical books out of the library rather than downloading digital copies – that’s another one of my quirks. While I’m open to learning and I enjoy new experiences, I also like the comfort and stability of tradition. In fact, I am also a very traditional student. For me, learning is not just about classes and homework and assignments. I like to bring my learning home with me, and to talk about topics that sparked my interest with my friends.

For example, yesterday in AP Biology, we learned about invasive species and their impact on ecology. This got me thinking about how human beings could, in our current form, be considered an invasive species, and I later had an interesting conversation with my friend about whether natural corrections could already be occurring in response.

Along with my piles of books, you can expect me to bring home many ideas, experiences, and speculations to discuss with you, maybe over a cup of tea

I am a passionate advocate for universal healthcare and specifically, equitable, and non-discriminatory access to healthcare for people of all communities. One of my goals in pursuing an education in medicine combined with public health policy is to take tangible actions towards my beliefs.

Growing up, my family and I never considered “going to the hospital” an option. My parents both had minimum wage jobs with no benefits. Without health insurance, without coverage, healthcare was, to us, a luxury. If we were seriously injured or ill, we would call on “unofficial” doctors – a friendly nurse, a local vet, or the knowledgeable pharmacist who lived above us. I remember when I was 12, my mother, who at the time had an undiagnosed diabetic condition, went into insulin shock, and almost died. Riding to the hospital in the ambulance, I could see that even in that moment, my father couldn’t purely worry about his wife’s life; he also had to worry about the medical bills he’d be stuck with, even if she lived.

My mother survived, and so did our family, but the suffering of that time still lives with me. It informs my desire to be the best possible doctor I can be, serving communities that need my help. And it’s why my greatest ambition is to one day be in a position to implement effective policies that address the imbalances in our healthcare system

What would you do to contribute to the lives of your classmates in advancing this mission? (650 words max)

The phrase “citizen-leader” is important to distinguish from conventional ideas about leadership. Rather than leading by trying to single oneself out among peers, I believe that real leadership comes through effecting palpable change in the lives of those around you. Effective leaders don’t stand apart from their communities, but rather strive to become as deeply rooted within them as possible. A real leader is first and foremost a citizen, a peer, and a support for those around them.

My sense of leadership has been shaped by my father, whose nearly 25 years in public education have positively impacted hundreds of students. Each year he would come home on the last day of a school year with dozens of cards and gifts, from both current students graduating and former students who stopped by to thank him sometimes years after being his students. He was a leader—someone who helped others learn to find themselves, rather than direct their actions or words through conventional authority. I’ve come to believe that power it is the ability to encourage people to evolve, and that sustained, successful leadership is measured only by the success and wellbeing of the people around you.

As a result of this understanding, I’ve maintained an active presence in my high school’s peer tutoring program throughout my junior and senior years. Since I also hope to become a teacher, this has provided important experience that helped me better understand the kind of communication and time management skills needed to help people overcome their educational obstacles, specifically regarding their writing skills. The Academic Resource Center’s Peer Tutoring program at Harvard is one of the central ways in which I’d like to help lead my fellow students toward a better understanding not only of rhetoric and composition, but of the world in general.

Coaching in sports is another mode of leadership that I hope to maintain at Harvard. Powerlifting has had a major place in my extracurricular life during high school and I was thrilled to learn that Harvard boasts a competitive powerlifting club. This goes back to the metric of encouraging success and wellbeing of others — the powerlifting club presents an opportunity in which I can further develop these skills along with my fellow barbell enthusiasts. I’ve found strength sport environments to be really egalitarian and accessible, with a continual emphasis on collaboration and mutual support that’s unique among team sports. The path to becoming a more effective leader comes from forging bonds and developing skills alongside other people, so that eventually your ability to lead follows naturally from the experience and abilities you’ve honed over years of work. By lifting up oneself and others, we eventually pass a threshold into becoming beacons of knowledge, exemplars of ethical and effective action, and citizen-leaders.

This all further galvanizes my desire to teach following my time at Harvard. I feel incredibly fortunate that my current passions in writing and powerlifting will provide opportunities in which I can further develop my leadership skills in a way that will improve my ability to teach them to others. I will strive to continue being a supportive peer and collaborator which is an important foundation for becoming a true leader and educator. Harvard is in every sense the best possible environment for continuing this evolution and encouraging it in my fellow students as well

Realizing how infinitely fascinating biology could be is a memory steeped in the peculiar odor of formaldehyde. My tiny hand, 9 years old and perpetually snack-sticky enough to leave fingerprints on the glass, reached out and lightly rested on the jar holding what I then called “monster hands”. In reality, this was an impeccably preserved pair of hands from a gout sufferer, one of the thousands of wet specimens in Philadelphia’s Mutter Museum, a place I didn’t know existed prior to my first visit but have not forgotten since.

Though the sight was unusual, I wasn’t scared by this display at all. My parents have since told me that I was overcome with fascination in that moment, genuinely transfixed by what surrounded me. My now-hazy recollection is one of wonder, and a feeling I couldn’t quite describe at the time but now understand to be empathy. “Was he sore?” I asked my parents. My mother laughed and my father calmly tried to explain, in toddler terms, just how much pain this person suffered.

This planted a seed that has since matured into a profound appreciation for the complexity of living systems. And, in more somber terms, a sensitivity to how these systems can short-circuit and create a domino effect of dysfunction that results in everything from uric acid crystals in knuckles to conjoined twins. I’ve since tempered my childhood fascination with more extreme medical conditions, but I can still see, feel, and smell that room in the Mutter. Strange as it may be, my lifelong obsession with medicine and biology comes out of this oddity-packed room, its vaguely astringent air, and impossibly large intestine sitting halfway up the stairs.

Penn’s Musculoskeletal Center is therefore one of the biggest reasons for my application for admission. The center’s current research in both ossification disorders and tissue engineering is incredibly exciting to me, and while I know participation in high-level research is quite limited for undergraduates, nothing would make me happier than to contribute to the MC’s singular work in some small way. Even more generally, the strength of Penn’s biology department will provide an incredible launching pad for more specialized work in medicine following graduation

In addition to my academic interests, music will be my main means of exploring Penn’s community. Growing up in a small town of just 600 people meant that my high school was perpetually underfunded and unable to support any music programs. Penn’s symphony orchestra and jazz combos would be my first opportunity to utilize years of private lessons and practice I’ve undertaken since early childhood. Moreover, working with such a renowned orchestra will be my first commitment to musical performance outside of small community ensembles. This would enable a previously underdeveloped part of who I am to bloom in the company of incredibly talented musicians and directors.

Shifting from very introverted, isolated artistic practice to genuine collaboration and community would be a massive evolution for me as both a musician and a person. I would look forward to unbottling the energy I've built up playing along to Sonny Rollins and John Coltrane over the last ten years, energizing and encouraging my fellow musicians and adding a unique perspective as someone who's new to—but very grateful for—larger ensemble performance

Art is always a snapshot of a given cultural and artistic moment, but the physicality of this information in pottery has always fascinated me and encouraged me to be both a voracious researcher and experimenter in my own creative practice Pottery is rightly considered an art, but its underpinnings in chemistry are what have attracted me to this practice and kept me engaged with it over the years. Glazes in particular are endlessly complex, rife with history and a sense of cross-cultural collaboration. In a sense, something as simple as the type of cobalt luster on a Hispano-Moresque plate contains centuries of history, telling stories of resource availability, migration, commerce, and even theology. Yet all of this information must be unlocked through understanding a piece's chemical underpinnings, and specifically the nearly infinite variations in fluxes and ensuing chemical interactions that have shaped—or more accurately, colored—earthenware and stoneware art throughout history.

Yale’s Chemistry BS/MS program will be a demanding course of study, but a big part of my extracurricular and personal development involvement throughout it will remain in the molecular magic of pottery. Much the same way surgeons often engage in very dexterity-dependent arts in their downtime, I look forward to continuing my personal explorations in art-oriented chemistry while further developing my academic proficiencies in the science itself

Being called “short stack” is probably common for a lot of 5 year-olds, and it certainly didn’t bother me throughout my kindergarten year. But just a few years later, I came to understand that I was not only significantly shorter than my friends but was in fact growing at a much slower pace.

I had grown up in a so-called “food desert”. As is the case for most families in these areas, mine rarely had enough money to afford what scarce high-nutrient food we did have access to. This experience has shaped a big part of not only my sense of self but of my desire to pursue a career in policy analysis to help prevent other kids from having food insufficiencies. Legislation around food and specifically its insufficient supply in poorer areas would therefore be a central focus in my individual research in Yale’s Urban Studies program, as well as my graduate and professional work thereafter.

I feel extremely strongly that I have an ethical duty to utilize the privilege afforded to me by an education at Yale to help other kids grow up happier, healthier, and in more self-sufficient communities

The biggest impact I’ve had on my friends and peers was small enough to fit in a shoebox. It started simply: one day in 8th grade, a friend forgot to pack any money, so the rest of us pitched in to buy her lunch. The next day she wanted to pay us back, but I suggested we just stash the $5 in case any of us forget our lunch money in the future. After a few weeks of saving our spare change, we had enough to move our cache to a small shoebox, which then became our friend group’s bank. This caught on quickly, and by ninth grade we began to maintain a class-wide “shoebox bank,” available to anyone who needed lunch money or a few dollars for anything else.

By the end of high school, this grew into a formal “leave what you can / take what you need” policy that allowed us to donate $400 to our city’s food bank at the end of the year. I couldn’t have done this alone, and so one of the most important things I learned from the success of our shoebox was that a good idea needs community support to succeed

Columbia has long been my magnetic North in the world of American literature. I was an early reader, and became interested in poetry, first the romantics and transcendentalists, then the beats. Tracing the biographies of figures like Kerouac and Ginsburg more recently, I began to realize that they and many other writers whose work had found its way to me spontaneously came with the common thread of Columbia.

My own poetic practice has therefore been deeply informed by the textures and philosophical milieus which stem from Columbia, and a big part of my desire to matriculate. Professor Arsić’s book On Leaving was especially transformative, awakening me to a fuller sense of the interrelatedness of so many American writers like Emerson, and galvanizing beyond any doubt the sense that literary studies was my calling. And on a more concrete level, the resources of both the Burke and Butler libraries would play a central part in my proposed thesis, allowing me to fully enmesh my own academic work with the history that has shaped it

My first visit to a planetarium at the age of 10 infected me with a specific obsession: infinity. The idea of an ever-expanding universe was so thrilling and puzzling to me that I couldn’t shake trying to understand it.

For months after my first trip to the Hayden planetarium, I pondered infinity, barely understanding the word itself. This matured into a lasting fascination with number and number theory specifically, and by the time I was in high school I was committed to following this path of knowledge without reservation. The history of number theory formed a prominent part of my elective work as an undergrad, during which I undertook both bibliographic and technical research on Cantor's paradox and "actual infinity" in relation to his lifelong mysticism.

My commitment to mathematics has grown and become much more specialized since my early bedazzlement by cosmology, but the experience of seeing mathematics as a way of thinking beyond conventional scales and frameworks has remained a central part of my love for the discipline ever since. A life spent exploring the outermost reaches of number and logic has been and still is my deepest desire

Cold water splashed my exposed calves as I helped pull the rubber dingy safely to shore. I kept thinking about the line of a poem by Warshan Shire: “no one puts their children in a boat unless the water is safer than the land.” I noted that there were more than 15 small children in the boat. My family and I had been vacationing on a Greek island when we heard cries coming from the sea. We rushed to help and with the aid of locals, we pulled the boat to shore. Luckily everyone survived. A few of those on the boat spoke English; they explained that they were refugees and had fled conflict in Syria. Until that point in my life the concept of a refugee was opaque. Now I understood in a visceral way what it meant to flee one’s country.

Since this trip one year ago, I have devoted most of my extracurricular hours to a local NGO that helps to resettle refugees. I have convinced many friends to join me as a “buddy” to incoming refugees. We teach each other about our cultures by cooking together, sharing stories, and exploring nature. The more I learn about other cultures, the more I realize that I have much more to learn. What I now know is that is my duty to advocate for those who do not have the power to advocate for themselves and to fight for the rights of those at home and abroad

My arms began to shake as the bag filled up. Soon it became almost too heavy to manage. Finally, the massive Leatherback Sea Turtle had finished laying her eggs and my team and I could move them to a nursery we had prepared. I was in Costa Rica for an AP class in Tropical Ecology and we were tasked with saving these eggs from poachers. We brought the eggs to safety and when we returned two months later, we were able to watch as hundreds of baby sea turtles hatched and made it out to sea.

This experience was particularly formative for me. I learned two important lessons. The first is the importance of environmental stewardship. Due to trawling, harvesting for consumption, light pollution and other human factors, many sea turtles are now critically endangered. It will be left to my generation to continue the fight to preserve the natural world. I also learned how inequality can contribute to environmental degradation. The poachers, for example, were working-class families who sold the eggs as aphrodisiacs for $USD 1-2 in order to survive. When I heard this, I had to act. By saving the eggs, we may have unintentionally denyied these families their means of survival. I therefore, asked my school program if we could brainstorm a solution that would help both the turtles and the locals. We decided to buy their handicrafts at a higher price, to sell back at home. We also established a yearly fundraiser. To date we have helped transition 10 local families from relying on turtle eggs, to selling handmade items. Through this new partnership with the community, we have also established a cultural exchange, in which a few of our youth spend one month in Costa Rica each year while their youth come to the United States. I hope that this will continue to flourish in the years to come.

With privilege comes responsibility: those of us who have grown up in wealthy societies have largely benefitted from an unequal global system. I believe that it is my duty to use this privilege to help both the world’s human and non-human inhabitants.

I had not lived long, but at that moment, I was sure this was the worst day of my life. I was only eleven years old, and I had to listen to a doctor tell my mother that I would have to inject myself every day for the rest of my life. Being diagnosed with Type I diabetes felt almost like a death sentence; my life changed in an instant, and I was terrified of not being able to cope with a chronic disease and afraid that I would never get to be a normal child. Little did I know that this condition would later on allow me to give back to my community through my volunteering initiatives and would make me want to pursue a career where I could help others.

The impact that my disease had on my family was profound. We all had to learn to adjust to a new reality, and I went from having a normal life, to having to mature in a matter of weeks. I knew that it was up to me to make this work, but I felt lost and did not know how to deal with this immense responsibility of managing a new diet, an insulin shot four times a day, and my emotions. After a few days, the initial shock was replaced by denial, then came anger, and little by little, I later gained acceptance. By exercising determination and courage, I decided that even though my disease was now a part of my life, I would not let it dictate who I was or what I could become. I was resolute to do great things.

Besides the discipline and resilience that I had to muster to live my life as a diabetic, I realized that some things in life are better dealt with by having a support system. With this in mind, I looked for volunteering positions where I could share my experience with others and listen to their own struggles. After I got involved in different initiatives, I decided to organize a support group in high school for students who were dealing with difficult situations and just needed someone to talk to. The group was so successful that I was invited to other schools to talk about what we did and about the difference we made in our members’ lives by just listening to one another. Today, we have more than twenty volunteers, and our meeting times have doubled since we started. Additionally, this group has been a platform for other initiatives that I have helped launch such as fundraising campaigns and mental health events. I do this as I keep looking for ways to get involved in my community and create spaces for people to support one another in difficult times.

We all have challenges in life. Being diagnosed with a chronic disease at such a young age was devastating for me and my family. However, form this experience I have learned that being disciplined is the key to living a healthy life and that being compassionate is the first step to helping those who need it. When I see how many people have been benefitted from our group, I look back and remember being a scared eleven-year-old, and I feel proud of what I have become. What felt like a death sentence at first turned into a way of supporting others in my community proving that the lessons we take from the obstacles we encounter can, in fact, be fundamental to later success

Looking through the eyepiece of a microscope, I was amazed to see the individual cells of a sea urchin embryo. In my high school cell and molecular biology class, we were studying the cell cycle and we had the opportunity to harvest embryos from sea urchins to view under the microscope. I had used a microscope before, but only to look at prepared slides containing preserved tissue samples. This was my first time viewing a live sample that I had prepared myself. This experience opened my eyes to the wonders of cell biology and how our scientific world has been expanded with the technology of microscopes. I knew that I wanted to continue to incorporate microscopes into my own learning and to learn as much as I could about cells and their inner workings. With Brown’s Open Curriculum, I am excited to broadly study biology while also diving deeply into the world of cell biology. The excitement I felt when looking through the microscope at a sea urchin embryo is one that I look to bring with me to Brown as my classmates and I embark on expanding our academic horizons and building the foundation needed to be successful in our future scientific careers

When I was a child, I was upset to learn that my parents had decided we would be moving houses. I did not want to leave the place I had called home for the past thirteen years, the place where I had friends and happy childhood memories. Since this period in my life, I have moved several times and now when I think of home, the first thought that comes to mind is my parents. I realized that home is not a specific place; it is the people that surround you that make you feel at home. This perspective allows me to travel to new places and embark on new adventures with the understanding that I can make any place feel like home. The key is building friendships and relationships with those around you so a place does not feel foreign but rather a place in which you feel supported. As I join your community, I look forward to establishing these relationships as my peers and I build a new home at Brown University

“Bam!” These were the energized words of Emeril Lagasse as he added a touch of parmesan cheese to perfectly top off the dish he had just cooked on live television. Growing up, my sisters and I became hooked on watching chefs like Emeril cook on The Food Network. I never liked mushrooms and despised when my parents included them as we sat down to eat dinner together each night. My parents said that if I did not like it, I could cook dinner myself. I had been watching cooking shows, so I decided to try my hand at cooking our family meals. My parents were thrilled to have someone else making dinner for the night and I was ecstatic to be put in the decision making seat for what we would be eating for dinner. Over the years, I continue to cook with my family as a way to grow closer together and I also cook by myself as a form of stress relief. As I chop vegetables, I get lost in the repetitive nature of the task and it becomes a form of meditation for me; something for my mind to focus on that allows me to forget about the troubles of the day. While my love for cooking stemmed from a desire to not have to eat mushrooms with dinner, it has grown into one of my favorite hobbies. At Cornell, I know I will meet a wide range of people and even the typical college student that does not know now to cook and relies on a microwave, pop tarts, and ramen to get through arduous study sessions. I hope to bring my hobby of cooking to Cornell where I can use it to make it through my own stressful hurdles but also to build relationships with my new classmates who may be missing a home-cooked mea

Staring down at my scuffed Converse Chuck Taylors, I distinctly remember the feeling of heat rising in my cheeks. Somehow, I had landed myself in the principal’s office at the beginning of the school year in tenth grade. I blame it on the growth spurt I experienced the summer before that had single-handedly taken half of my wardrobe out of commission. The polka dot dress skimmed the tops of my knees on the first day of high school was now, apparently, so short that it would “distract the young men” in class. Though I respected the rules at my school, I was infuriated, embarrassed, and confused about being made to feel as though I had done something morally wrong as a result of my height making my skirt length criminally deficient. After sheepishly explaining the situation to my mom, I was relieved to find her just as angry about the school’s actions, and even more relieved when she supported my desire to challenge them.

Challenging the school’s actions ended up being a little more, well, challenging than I thought. Growing up in a conservative area, my defiance was met with disdain and whispers in the hallway about not knowing my place. Thankfully, however, not all of my peers were so resistant to change. After weeks of emails campaigning the student government’s faculty advisor, I was finally permitted to make a presentation about the sexism inherent in the school’s dress code before the student government representatives, who grew excited about the potential to change school policy for the better. Collaborating with each grade’s representative, we organized a school-wide awareness-raising campaign to engender support for our initiative. At after-school sports practices, band rehearsals, and art club meetings, I pleaded with my peers to realize how antiquated these restrictions on girls’ dress were. It was a blatant sexualization of minors’ bodies at best and spread the message that male students were not responsible for their actions when faced with such temptations as exposed kneecaps and bare shoulders. I knew that our school could do better.

Finally, after months of work, my team of advocates and I obtained 1,000 student signatures and 2,000 parent signatures supporting an initiative to reconsider my school’s dress code through a gender equity lens. I distinctly remember the heat rising in my cheeks as I stepped up to the podium to address the school board, but this time they were flushed with excitement and pride, not shame or embarrassment. Though I did abide by my mother’s censorship of my wardrobe that time—admittedly, scuffed Chuck Taylors did not reflect the gravity of that event—I was so proud to be advocating for gender equity in my school and saving so many of my female peers the trouble of disciplinary action for their bodies being seen. The results of the reconsideration are not yet in, but I learned the power of using my voice for positive social change – something I look forward to continuing in college

Nothing compares to the feeling of the first pass of a pigment-soaked brush on a clean canvas. The first slice into a beautifully iced birthday cake or the powerful print of a first footstep in snow may come close, but I can never lose myself in a sugary confection or icy landscape the way I can when standing at my easel. The thrill I felt as a small child when finger painting never left me, though my technique may have improved a bit.

Technique aside, the value of self-expression through artistic endeavor has only grown for me as I mature. Many find cathartic release through journaling or sharing their thoughts with others in conversation, but I feel most connected to my feelings and the world when I put paint brush to canvas. Not all sentiments can be captured in words, which is where art takes over for me. Just as a piece of music can engender poignant emotions in its listener, a piece of art can make a person feel seen in a large and often lonely world. Nobody knew this better than my middle school art teacher Mrs. Williams. She often let me stay in the studio after school to put continuous rounds of final touches on my latest masterpiece, knowing that sometimes my piece did not need those additional strokes, but my soul did. A true artist herself, Mrs. Williams understood how art could tell a story and that sometimes the artist’s need to tell their story in color and shape was more important than the finished product. Over the years following middle school, I visited Mrs. Williams every once in a while and each time was always like no time had passed. We would set our easels side by side and paint, sometimes chatting a bit, but often sitting in comfortable silence as we watched colors blend and form new hues with the flick of a paint brush.

In the middle of my junior year of high school, I received the tragic news that Mrs. Williams had suffered a massive heart attack and passed. Devastated and trying to make sense of the first death I had ever experienced, I turned to my mother for advice. “Well, how would you deal with this if Mrs. Williams were here?” she asked me. Of course. I should have known that was the answer to working through my grief. Grabbing my easel and a stool, I set up on the front porch where I could see the sun filtering through the oak leaves in green and yellow shards of glass, smiled at the memory of Mrs. Williams, and began to paint

I think by the time we graduate high school, we all fall into the trap of thinking we know ourselves pretty well by now. The truth is, we are only just discovering who we are. And at that point in our lives, we are entering into an incredible period of self-discovery and personal growth. I know I am no exception, and my post-high school years have included some of the most amazing experiences of my life.

Last year was my first opportunity to travel abroad. For someone who rarely strayed more than 100 miles from where they grew up, this was a pretty intimidating choice, but I was excited to travel, to learn about another place and people. For this unique experience, I chose to travel to Japan; a country so unlike my own, I was both excited and worried. Excited for the opportunity, but worried because I speak no Japanese and had never left home before. I wasn’t sure what to expect of myself.

After first arriving, everything seemed to be going well, and I had few problems getting around. The locals were friendly and spoke enough English that I had no troubles. Aside from learning to adapt to a new culture, I had no qualms. That is, until I decided to take a bus trip, by myself, into a rural area of the country to do some sightseeing.

I was traveling alone, and all the other bus passengers spoke little English. After we arrived at our destination, I got off the bus and toured around, taking photos and enjoying some lunch. Unfortunately, when I went to catch the bus back to the city, I discovered it was gone. And from what I could gather at the bus stop, there would be no more buses running until the following week, since it was the weekend. Now that I was in a smaller village, there were virtually no English speakers, but I managed to communicate in the limited Japanese I’d learned.

Basically, there were no options for transport back to the city. I could walk down a mountainside throughout the night, or I could wait until Monday to catch the next bus back. Through some creative communication, I managed to get a place to stay for the weekend. The village didn’t have an official inn, but the owner of the restaurant where I’d eaten lunch was kind enough to rent me her vacant upstairs room for the two days. Even with her limited English and my poor Japanese, we found a way to make it work. She was even nice enough to invite me to eat with her family that night, and give me some suggestions for a hike the next day. When I got on the bus to leave on Monday morning, she waved me goodbye and sent me off with a homemade meal for the journey.

Although the setback I experience seemed at first to confirm my fears that I wouldn’t be able to get myself out of a jam, I still managed to sort the problem out, with some help from a kind woman.

If anything, this experience taught me that I am still learning and still growing. It also showed me that I am much more adaptable and resourceful than I give myself credit for. By being open to new experiences and expanding horizons, I can allow myself to expand, too.

My trip taught me some invaluable things about myself, and definitely changed my perspective of who I am. It also taught me the importance of planning ahead and having a backup travel plan!

From the time I was in grade school, I thought I was destined to become a scientist. Specifically, I wanted to become a marine biologist. Other students in my class would change their minds from week to week, switching their ideal future careers from doctor to astronaut to musician, never settling on anything and always exploring new possibilities. But I was stuck on marine biology. I was obsessed. Every weekend, I asked to visit the local aquarium.

I imagine my parents were quite pleased with my choice of interest, as they were both scientists themselves. My mother is a molecular biologist, and my father is a neuroscientist and professor. They encouraged my love of science, from bringing me to the aquarium to teaching me to snorkel and scuba dive as I grew up.

In high school, I excelled in the sciences and received high grades. Every academic performance was another step towards my goal of becoming a marine biologist, of being admitted to a good school and focusing on science. But somewhere along the way, my love for science was changed. Not diluted, or split, but evolved into something more. Through science, I discovered a love for art. I can’t pinpoint exactly when this love began, but it was somewhere in the cool, bluish space of the aquarium observation room. Having spent so many hours there, observing the hundreds of different species, studying their patterns, it’s easy to forget that I used to draw sketches of them.

I dug through some old boxes, and as often happens when you’re looking through childhood memories, I found something unexpected. Sketchbooks, crammed full of sketches, diagrams and notes of my favourite aquatic species. There were sketches from things I’d seen while scuba diving or visiting the aquarium—fish with colourful stripes and waving fins, coral with intricate patterns and shapes. I was surprised at the details I’d put into the drawings. After showing them to some friends and receiving positive reviews, a friend of mine convinced me to show my drawings in an art show. I’d never considered art as something other than a tool I used in my scientific studies. It never occurred to me that there was an intersection between art and science. An undeniable connection. How could two disciplines, seemingly opposites, come together seamlessly?

The scientist in me was intrigued that there was an existing relationship between the two I had yet to discover. So, I took my friend’s advice and let them arrange an art show for me. I selected my best pieces drawn in pencil. Then I went back to visit my favorite aquarium. I brought my tools with me, and I commenced my experiment.

For hours, I sat on the benches, drawing sketches, scribbling notes on color differentiation, environment and behaviour. Taking my new sketches home, I started experimenting with an entirely new medium: paint. With some help from my friend, I began learning the techniques and methods to create fully colorful paintings of my favorite marine creatures. The results were surprising and stunning.

By the end of a few weeks, I had dozens of pencil sketches and half a dozen smaller paintings. I’d seen how I could develop an eye for color, and use it to capture the exact hues of the creatures I observed. Or how to translate the natural movement of coral and their incredible patterns into flecks of paint. The realism I could create with a few simple things was astounding. I nervously displayed my artwork and waited for my first art exhibition.

The exhibition was a great success, and I even sold some of my paintings. The most notable part of my experience was how it changed my idea of myself. It was surprising and delightful to discover that my passion for science could be expressed so creatively. And that art could understand and capture the beauty of science.

I would not say that I am a very grateful person, but recently I experienced something that made me believe cultivating more gratitude in my life is a good thing. For a long time, I’ve believed that some people are talented and others are not, and that’s just the way things are. And when you have a talent for something, you should use it and deserve to be recognized for it.

As a talented dancer, I hold this mindset deeply ingrained, I think. Dance has always been natural to me. It comes easy and I know I excel at it. I’ve never failed to impress my teachers. Except for my latest dance teacher. Ms. Martins is a new addition to my dance club, and she is known for being strict and having high standards, like many dance teachers. As I have high standards myself, I expected we would get along just fine.

To my surprise, we did not. Every class, she would provide who I considered to be weaker students with plenty of encouragement. For me, she had only critiques. One of her favorite comments was that I wasn’t pushing myself far enough. Of course, this attitude aggravated me and created some resentment.

I finally confronted her when she passed me over for a lead spot in the club’s upcoming production. I asked her why she wouldn’t put her best student in the lead role. Her reply shocked me. She said that while I may be her best student, I wasn’t her strongest. When I asked what she meant, she remarked that I would never grow as a dancer if I kept coasting on my natural talent and stopped challenging myself.

Determined to prove her wrong, I promised to challenge myself. At the next internal club showcase, I performed a difficult dance in front of my classmates and the faculty, including Ms. Martins. She complimented me on my performance but remarked that I hadn’t truly challenged myself. She suggested I try a dance I wasn’t familiar with or try dancing in a new discipline to see if I could translate my skills across dance styles.

With renewed vigor, I did as she suggested, and attended a class on hip-hop, instead of my specialty of ballet. Ballet is considered extremely rigorous, despite its appearance, but I learned in a hip-hop class, it takes more than talent to succeed. I had never struggled so much in my life to perform a dance properly. Being the stubborn sort of person I am, I didn’t throw in the towel and instead went back for another class, then another.

The next time I had the chance to perform in front of Ms. Martins, I chose a hip-hop routine. It was far from my best dance performance, but it felt surprisingly satisfying to see her smile in the audience. I was even more surprised to hear her say that she was impressed after my performance.

What was even more baffling to me was that I felt a surge of gratitude for Ms. Martins for convincing me to push my boundaries and work outside my discipline. When I was able to learn a new style, it gave me a sense of satisfaction that I could still excel outside my preference. When I performed my next ballet routine and found I’d even incorporated some of the lessons I’d learned in hip-hop class into my ballet, I couldn’t believe it, but I wanted to thank Ms. Martins for what she did.

Without her, I might never have pushed my boundaries. I might never have discovered that I could go beyond my best performance. Her push for me to challenge myself has made me realize that its important to keep challenging myself and growing in my skill. That I had grown complacent, and it was in fact affecting my passion for dance. Somehow though, my gratitude to my teacher has reignited the spark of passion for dance and encouraged me to never grow complacent again.

I have always been fascinated with the evolution of storytelling. It ties together some of my favorite topics and various disciplines, including history, writing, culture, literature and humanities. I admit, it can be a bit of a dry subject matter to hear about. When was the last time you attended a lecture on the history of the development of human language and writing systems? But it is endlessly incredible to me that we have so much knowledge on this subject, and that storytelling can tell us so much about our collective history. Storytelling is a subject I could happily go on about for hours without noticing the time passing.

There are simply so many sub-topics there for discussion and things to learn. Storytelling fascinates me because I think it truly is the one thing that connects each and every human: in the past, present and future. At its core, storytelling is just the sharing of experience. A way to say, I was here, I lived, I experienced things just as you have. It’s no surprise to me that humans have been diligently recording and passing down their stories since the dawn of time, preserving them in whatever way they can, from paintings on cave walls all the way to self-published ebooks.

When I want to learn more about this subject, and I always do, there’s no shortage of places to look. There are thousands of academic articles on the subject, detailing the history and evolution of writing, language, culture, human history, and storytelling. And those are all well and good. Growing up, one of my favourite sources was National Geographic. I loved to read, and so an article or two to expand my knowledge was always welcome. There is so much literature to choose from on this subject it’s awe-inspiring.

But perhaps my favorite way to expand my knowledge and understanding of storytelling is through other people. Listening to their personal stories is so humbling. I particularly enjoy reading projects like Humans of New York. Hearing these small, personal stories and seeing the connections between them reminds me that stories are really the fabric of humanity; billions of tiny threads woven together to create a masterpiece.

I truly think there is nothing quite like storytelling; it is a gift unto itself. It’s something so seemingly simple, that ripples across countless lives and times.

Many of the differences between people are on the outside. Visible. Like a lot of others who were considered “different”, I knew it about myself from an early age. But my differences weren’t on the outside, and I never had a way to explain them until recently. Being neurodivergent is still a misunderstood concept, and it applies to so many various conditions that it can be difficult to categorize. For me, though, it encapsulates that feeling I’ve always had of being different.

Being a neurodivergent person has meaning to me because it has affected so much of my life, in good ways and bad. But it has taught me many life lessons, too, that I don’t think neurotypical people experience often. As a child, without a way to communicate my way of thinking and experiencing the world, I was given a few different labels. Some people thought I was a gifted child, because I loved to read and I had an excellent memory. Others called me a problem, accused me of not paying attention or listening. A standout incident for me, and that many others can relate to, I think, is when my sixth grade English teacher forbade me from reading the books I chose during class free reading time. She thought it was unfair of me to read what she considered too advanced. I had brought a well-loved copy of Lord of the Rings with me to class, but since it was well above the reading level of my classmates, it was banned by my teacher. At that time, I couldn’t understand being punished for doing something I loved, and didn’t have the communication skills to express my frustration to her. Instead, I felt forced to sit in sullen silence during class reading time, deliberately choosing not to read the approved sixth-grade reading level books and being labeled as having a problem with authority.

These sorts of judgments made my scholastic life tricky, but my way of processing things made social interactions awkward for me, too. Plenty of kids struggle with these things, but not all of us were able to explain why—and that was the worst part. Not having an explanation for being the way you are and being told all these negative things about yourself with no other alternative to believe. In sixth grade, I didn’t have the tools to explain that I was just doing what I loved, and that with the option taken away from me, I didn’t have an outlet for my feelings of frustration.

My experiences were a sort of blessing in disguise as I’ve grown older, though. Because I’ve had to develop myself. To work on myself, specifically my social skills and communication style. And I’ve had to learn how to turn my differences and my supposed weaknesses into strengths in ways others don’t. I’ve practiced turning my bluntness into clarity. My apparent aloofness into level-headedness and coolness under pressure.

I’ve discovered ways to fit into the world in a way that works for me. It’s given me not only my sense of identity, but my assurance in myself and invaluable soft skills like empathy, self-management, self-discipline, and collaboration. Being a neurodivergent person has also allowed me to develop my creative, innovative mind, to see the world through different lens. My perspective is unique, and it’s opened my eyes to possibilities that others don’t see.

My identity as a neurodivergent person and my background are incredibly meaningful to my past and to my future. I think the world needs more people like me, who see and experience things a bit differently. And I know the self-discovery I’ve gone through with this process is a solid foundation on which to build my future.

I had never broken into a car before.

We were in Laredo, having just finished our first day at a Habitat for Humanity work site. The Hotchkiss volunteers had already left, off to enjoy some Texas BBQ, leaving me behind with the college kids to clean up. Not until we were stranded did we realize we were locked out of the van.

Someone picked a coat hanger out of the dumpster, handed it to me, and took a few steps back.

"Can you do that thing with a coat hanger to unlock it?"

"Why me?" I thought.

More out of amusement than optimism, I gave it a try. I slid the hanger into the window's seal like I'd seen on crime shows, and spent a few minutes jiggling the apparatus around the inside of the frame. Suddenly, two things simultaneously clicked. One was the lock on the door. (I actually succeeded in springing it.) The other was the realization that I'd been in this type of situation before. In fact, I'd been born into this type of situation.

My upbringing has numbed me to unpredictability and chaos. With a family of seven, my home was loud, messy, and spottily supervised. My siblings arguing, the dog barking, the phone ringing—all meant my house was functioning normally. My Dad, a retired Navy pilot, was away half the time. When he was home, he had a parenting style something like a drill sergeant. At the age of nine, I learned how to clear burning oil from the surface of water. My Dad considered this a critical life skill—you know, in case my aircraft carrier should ever get torpedoed. "The water's on fire! Clear a hole!" he shouted, tossing me in the lake without warning. While I'm still unconvinced about that particular lesson's practicality, my Dad's overarching message is unequivocally true: much of life is unexpected, and you have to deal with the twists and turns.

Living in my family, days rarely unfolded as planned. A bit overlooked, a little pushed around, I learned to roll with reality, negotiate a quick deal, and give the improbable a try. I don't sweat the small stuff, and I definitely don't expect perfect fairness. So what if our dining room table only has six chairs for seven people? Someone learns the importance of punctuality every night.

But more than punctuality and a special affinity for musical chairs, my family life has taught me to thrive in situations over which I have no power. Growing up, I never controlled my older siblings, but I learned how to thwart their attempts to control me. I forged alliances, and realigned them as necessary. Sometimes, I was the poor, defenseless little brother; sometimes I was the omniscient elder. Different things to different people, as the situation demanded. I learned to adapt.

Back then, these techniques were merely reactions undertaken to ensure my survival. But one day this fall, Dr. Hicks, our Head of School, asked me a question that he hoped all seniors would reflect on throughout the year: "How can I participate in a thing I do not govern, in the company of people I did not choose?"

The question caught me off guard, much like the question posed to me in Laredo. Then, I realized I knew the answer. I knew why the coat hanger had been handed to me.

Growing up as the middle child in my family, I was a vital participant in a thing I did not govern, in the company of people I did not choose. It's family. It's society. And often, it's chaos. You participate by letting go of the small stuff, not expecting order and perfection, and facing the unexpected with confidence, optimism, and preparedness. My family experience taught me to face a serendipitous world with confidence.

My first dream job was to be a pickle truck driver. I saw it in my favorite book, Richard Scarry's "Cars and Trucks and Things That Go," and for some reason, I was absolutely obsessed with the idea of driving a giant pickle. Much to the discontent of my younger sister, I insisted that my parents read us that book as many nights as possible so we could find goldbug, a small little golden bug, on every page. I would imagine the wonderful life I would have: being a pig driving a giant pickle truck across the country, chasing and finding goldbug. I then moved on to wanting to be a Lego Master. Then an architect. Then a surgeon.

Then I discovered a real goldbug: gold nanoparticles that can reprogram macrophages to assist in killing tumors, produce clear images of them without sacrificing the subject, and heat them to obliteration.

Suddenly the destination of my pickle was clear.

I quickly became enveloped by the world of nanomedicine; I scoured articles about liposomes, polymeric micelles, dendrimers, targeting ligands, and self-assembling nanoparticles, all conquering cancer in some exotic way. Completely absorbed, I set out to find a mentor to dive even deeper into these topics. After several rejections, I was immensely grateful to receive an invitation to work alongside Dr. Sangeeta Ray at Johns Hopkins.

In the lab, Dr. Ray encouraged a great amount of autonomy to design and implement my own procedures. I chose to attack a problem that affects the entire field of nanomedicine: nanoparticles consistently fail to translate from animal studies into clinical trials. Jumping off recent literature, I set out to see if a pre-dose of a common chemotherapeutic could enhance nanoparticle delivery in aggressive prostate cancer, creating three novel constructs based on three different linear polymers, each using fluorescent dye (although no gold, sorry goldbug!). Though using radioactive isotopes like Gallium and Yttrium would have been incredible, as a 17-year-old, I unfortunately wasn't allowed in the same room as these radioactive materials (even though I took a Geiger counter to a pair of shoes and found them to be slightly dangerous).

I hadn't expected my hypothesis to work, as the research project would have ideally been led across two full years. Yet while there are still many optimizations and revisions to be done, I was thrilled to find -- with completely new nanoparticles that may one day mean future trials will use particles with the initials "RK-1" -- thatcyclophosphamide did indeed increase nanoparticle delivery to the tumor in a statistically significant way.

A secondary, unexpected research project was living alone in Baltimore, a new city to me, surrounded by people much older than I. Even with moving frequently between hotels, AirBnB's, and students' apartments, I strangely reveled in the freedom I had to enjoy my surroundings and form new friendships with graduate school students from the lab. We explored The Inner Harbor at night, attended a concert together one weekend, and even got to watch the Orioles lose (to nobody's surprise). Ironically, it's through these new friendships I discovered something unexpected: what I truly love is sharing research. Whether in a presentation or in a casual conversation, making others interested in science is perhaps more exciting to me than the research itself. This solidified a new pursuit to angle my love for writing towards illuminating science in ways people can understand, adding value to a society that can certainly benefit from more scientific literacy.

It seems fitting that my goals are still transforming: in Scarry's book, there is not just one goldbug, there is one on every page. With each new experience, I'm learning that it isn't the goldbug itself, but rather the act of searching for the goldbugs that will encourage, shape, and refine my ever-evolving passions. Regardless of the goldbug I seek -- I know my pickle truck has just begun its journey.

I began measuring my life in flipped pages, packed boxes, and school maps when I was 6. As my family and I flitted between states and coasts for my father’s job over the last decade, I shielded myself with fantasy novels. With my head propped on the baseboard near my nightlight and a book held up in front of me by aching arms, I would dance in whimsical forests, fight daring battles, and rule dangerous courts long after dark. In my fantastic universe, I could take turns being the queen, the knight, the hero, and even the villain. These books helped me express the happiness, anger, sadness, and queerness I could not have even begun to imagine alone.

The characters I discovered in novels as I toured libraries and Barnes & Noble stores in strip malls around the country taught me resilience and empowered me to nourish my strengths. Mare Barrow showed me the power of determined women, and I unapologetically strove for academic excellence and obtained a GPA of 4.4. Tane, from The Priory of the Orange Tree, inspired me to push the limits of my own body, so I’ve traversed approximately 1,544 miles in cross-country races and practices. Evelyn Hugo’s unapologetic character compelled me to want to embrace and feel free with my queerness rather than shelter it away in a shameful corner. Even further, this year I am adding a third dimension to my love of fantasy by interpreting Mrs. White in my school’s production of Shuddersome and The Monkey’s Paw with assistance from Anne of Green Gables, my first fictional idol, who massively influenced my personality and tendency for dramatics. But above all, Leigh Bardugu, my favorite author, gave me permission to even dare to write and to dream that I can.

What began as a safety net in my adolescence has grown to something more, a true passion for English and all that it can express. Language is power and I wish to wield it like a mighty sword. I want to be the puppetmaster, the speaker, and the leader in a world that is crafted in ink. I want to be a New York Times bestseller and to know that whatever I do is impactful and that it creates a difference, no matter how small. I want to walk down a crowded street and see “my book” spread open in a passing person’s hands, as they refuse to put it down, just like I did so many times in the hallways of my middle school. A writer, a college professor, a publishing lawyer: I want it all, the riots of failure, and the pride of success.

Without the assistance of literature, I wouldn’t be who I am today. If I hadn’t grown up fueled on library hauls I wouldn’t have discovered that I love English. I wouldn’t get shivers when I fret for a favorite character or celebrate their triumphs, be as ready to face obstacles, or be as adventurous as I am. Without the moves around the country and back, I wouldn’t have become so resilient and open to change, so adaptable to life, but most importantly I wouldn’t have become so in love with language. With every move I burrowed in books, and with every book I became me. Literature has made me in every way, and the only way I can repay it is to become the penman.

I dreaded their arrival. The tyrannical cicadas swarmed DC and neighboring areas in 1987, 2004, and again in 2021. I was freaking about Brood X, the worst of them all. Brood X is a cluster of cicadas that descend on Washington, D.C., every 17 years. I live in the epicenter of their swarm. Cicadas battled with mosquitoes for first place in the top tier of the human annoyance pyramid. I hate these off-brand cockroaches.

For 17 years, cicadas live underground feasting off of sap, running free of danger. Then, they emerge and face the real world. That sounds familiar. I have lived in the same house, in the same town, for 17 years, with my parents feeding me pasta and keeping me safe.

Is it conceivable that I have more in common with cicadas than I previously thought? Cicadas have beady, red eyes. After a year of enduring Zoom classes, attending tele-health appointments, and spending too much time on social media and video games, I too feel a little blurry-eyed and disoriented. But what about their incessant hum and perpetual noise? That is not me. OK, maybe I do make protein shakes with a noisy blender at all hours of the day. Maybe I do FaceTime vehemently with friends, blare music while I shower, and constantly kick a ball around both inside the house and out.

At least I do not leave damaged wings, shedded skin, or rotting carcasses everywhere. Smelly soccer socks on the clean carpet after a long practice? Check. Pools of turf in the mudroom after sliding all over the field? You got it. Dirty dishes and trail mix stains after accidentally sitting on a mislaid M&M are hardly as abhorrent as cicada remains, right?

The more I reflected, the more I realized these bugs and I are more alike than different. After 17 years of being cooped up, we are both antsy to face new experiences. Of course, cicadas want to broaden their wings, fly, and explore the world, even if it means clumsily colliding into people’s faces, telephone poles, and parked cars. Just like I want to shed my skin and escape to college, even if it means getting lost on campus or ruining a whole load of laundry. Despite all my newbie attributes, I am proceeding to the next phase of my life whether I am ready or not.

Only the hardiest of cicadas survive their emergence and make it to trees to mate, lay eggs, and ensure the existence of their species. I want to be a tenacious Brood X cicada. I will know what it means to travel into the wrong classroom before getting laughed at, bump into an upperclassman before dropping textbooks everywhere, fail an exam after thinking I aced it. I may even become the cicada of the lecture hall by asking a professor for permission to go to the bathroom. Like cicadas, I will need time to learn how to learn.

No matter what challenge I undergo that exposes and channels my inner-cicada, novice thought process, I will regroup and continue to soar toward the ultimate goal of thriving in college.

When I look beyond our beady red eyes, round-the-clock botherment, and messy trails, I now understand there is room for all creatures to grow, both cicadas and humans. Cicadas certainly are on to something ... Seventeen years is the perfect amount of time to emerge and get ready to fly.

I was born to two moms. One, my biological mom, Meredith. One, my mom who adopted me, Mary. Because they were a same-sex couple, the law required that Mary adopt me in order to be my parent. They used Sperm Donor 3311. All I know about my “father” is that he didn’t have a familial history of cancer, he has a twin brother who is 6'4", and he studied math in school. This is all background information; I don’t even know his name. He doesn’t know mine, nor does he know that I even exist. People often ask “What does your father do for a living?” and I’m forced to respond “I actually have two moms,” triggering reactions like that of my driving instructor, “Oh, well that must be different.” I’m 17-years-old and still don’t know how to respond to these comments.

When I was 5, Mary, who had been sick for a long time with leukemia, passed away, and my life was turned upside down. I was old enough to understand grief, and yet I still question why it happened. It was terrifying seeing my mom break down while saying, “Mom died last night.” I wonder what I missed out on and carry guilt that I don’t remember much about Mary, because we just didn’t have enough time together. Many say grief gets easier with time, however, I think the way you grieve just changes over time.

The world kept spinning and, in 2011, my biological mom met another woman, who soon became my stepmom. However, to me, Kerry is also my mom. No longer do I reveal the fact that I have two moms; now I get reactions to the fact that I have three.

Not knowing my father doesn’t leave a void in my life. “Dad” didn’t sing “there was an old lady who swallowed a fly” and tickle me when the old lady swallowed the spider, my moms did. He didn’t take me to Gunpowder Friends Meeting where I shook hands and spent time with 80-year-old friends from the retirement home, my moms did. He didn’t console me when I began crying at the dry-erase board at school because it reminded me of white boards Mom wrote on when she was unable to talk. He didn’t teach me that love is love. He didn’t teach me who I was becoming, my moms did that.

I’ve never known my father or that I was supposed to have one, so why would I think my life is any different from the so-called “norm?” If there’s one thing I have learned from my parents, it’s that I have developed a love for difference. I openly accept all those around me and excitedly anticipate the relationships that I will build in my future. There is no such thing as a normal family structure, and my upbringing has given me that greater world view. My moms have raised me to believe that I can accomplish anything. There are still limits, though. My family chooses not to travel to Jamaica because we aren’t accepted there. Before each family vacation, we must research to see if it is a gay-friendly place. I don’t know the answers to questions about my dad’s side of the family. But I don’t let those kinds of things get to me because instead I can talk about the people who raised me. The world is changing as we speak. “Normal” is fading, but it has already disappeared for me. I don’t want anything different than the family I have, and I own that every day

“The difference between an anti-personnel and an anti-tank mine is not that complicated,” I am told casually, in halting Russian, by a boy even younger than I am during a walk through the Chechen mountains. I am freshly 14 and visiting my father’s homeland for the first time, unfamiliar with the harsh realities that kids half my age already know ironclad. My guide points out the areas where the grass is overgrown and the fruit trees abundant. People and animals alike know to avoid them; someone has learned of landmines the hard way. It shouldn’t surprise me — the scars of war on this rugged country are omnipresent — but it is so jarringly different from my life in London that it is nevertheless hard to digest.

It also differs from my father’s rosy stories about his childhood in Katyr-Yurt, stories that made me wish to swim carefree in icy rivers, devour handfuls of fresh sour cherries straight from the tree, and see nights dense with stars. I still experience these beauties of place, but my eyes are now open to the less romanticized parts, both enriching and complicating my connection to my family’s past. Suddenly, too, I am made uncomfortably aware of the conflicting layers of my familial identity. It is the Russian of my Muscovite, Jewish mother that I grew up speaking at home. Yet the Chechen children speak in broken Russian, and the grownups who are more fluent in it are not keen to communicate in the enemy’s language. Seeing the ugly scars of war, both physical and psychological, I cannot help but feel like an intruder, ashamed not only of my Russianness but also of my city-boy naivete. Despite this shame, I yearn to discover what it means to be Chechen, to see their home through their eyes, and through this desire, I begin to feel a deep connection all of my own to this beautiful, fraught land.

In Moscow, my new awareness of conflicting identities only intensifies, but now on account of the maternal side of my heritage. Relatives there largely see Chechens as terrorists and raise an eyebrow when they hear where I have spent my summer. Babushka’s neighbour, a nurse who witnessed the carnage from the theatre siege in Moscow, turns away disgustedly when she overhears me relate the beauty of the mountains and the notable generosity of the people. Once again, I register the fear and distrust of “the other” that reigns in the more homogeneous cultures in Russia, making me appreciate the diversity of London all the more.

When I return there, I cannot slip back into life as normal as I have done after past summers. I find myself pondering the question of identity and the way people interpret their own past, informed just as much by collective emotion and memory as by fact. The cosmopolitanism of London is just as I remembered it, but the things I loved about it I now see in a new light. I had always revelled in the fact that, despite our differences in heritage, my peers and I had seen each other as the same — bound together by being Londoners first and foremost. Now I am interested in conversations that I would never have considered previously, wanting not only to share my newfound experiences but also learn about the personal histories of my friends, many of whom, like me, are the children of immigrants to the UK. When did they come to explore and interrogate their own complicated identities? How did these discoveries make them feel? What does it mean to carry the stories, the poetry, and the pain of so many places within them? Questions like these, which were so important for me to answer about myself, also became a powerful place from which to understand more deeply the people around me and the complex world we share.

I know that I had prepared well for this moment. For two arduous months, I readied my fingers for an exciting concert. No anxiety could undermine my confidence in my preparation, and my piano recital’s success was “in the bag.” I selected three pieces for my repertoire: the ambience of Erik Satie’s Gymnopedie No. 1 as the opener, a somber contemplation of Beethoven’s First Movement of the Moonlight Sonata, and Bach’s light and surreal Prelude in C Major for the conclusion.

My shining moment arrived, and I strode purposefully toward the piano. The building in which my performance was held was new, but its dwellers were old. Respect and prestige permeated the atmosphere as I took each stride to my seat. As I sat down, the chair creaked and moaned as if in sympathy with the audience’s aching desire to hear me play. I prepared my sheet music and commenced my epic moment.

Never was such an exhilarating performance heard. All of the little techniques and tricks that I practiced were executed perfectly. I captured the dynamics I wanted to express in Satie’s phonological experiment with each chord to which I applied varying pressure. Moving onto one of Beethoven’s most famous works, I crafted the cascading arpeggios of each new chord, which resonated unity uninterrupted in me and in the audience. When I concluded with the airy prelude from Bach’s Well-Tempered Clavier, the room swelled with bliss. Having poured my heart and soul into each piece, I beamed with pride.

As customary for a stellar show, I rose to bow to the audience to thank them for their eruption of applause. Flowers were thrown, cheers elicited, and standing ovations bestowed. From the subsiding din came a faint question to rain on my parade: “Could you play something more lively, darling, say, a Neil Diamond song?”

I work on weekends at a long-term-care facility, and my geriatric audience, although a pleasure with whom to interact, can be brutally honest. Begrudgingly, I thanked Mrs. Hersch for her request, promised her better next time, and stewed in my own irrelevance. Going home that day, my feathers were ruffled. How could any civilized listener, after such a superb medley, disregard such time-honored compositions? The notion was absurd.

Yet perhaps more outlandish, as I later acknowledged, was my visceral reaction to the events that had transpired. Why did I react hesitantly to a simple request made in earnestness? It would have been easier, in fact, to practice “Sweet Caroline” than to break my fingers over Beethoven’s work. Then, in my moments of introspection, I concluded that my choice of musical pieces mattered little as long as my audience enjoyed them. Whether it meant recreating the most tortured and heinously composed pop song or a masterfully crafted Romantic concerto, I vowed to play them all.

Throughout my life, my adult mentors have succored me with platitudes when most needed, which laid the foundation for my confidence. Yet, while working with people who have lived five times longer than I have, experiencing so much more than I can imagine, I know that the world does not revolve around my tastes and interests. I’m okay with that. Thus, for a couple of hours each day in the living room, unlucky family members passing by are subjected to the torment of my tenth run-through of “Sweet Caroline” as I prepare for my next recital for an audience that has taught me more about personal preferences, and myself, than I anticipated.

I have never felt such palpable emotion, such profound grief emanating from a space, as I did while hiking through the forest fire scorch in Philmont, New Mexico. A universe had once existed under the protection of these Ponderosa Pine, now black and crusted, turning brittle in the wind. It was a landscape that didn’t sing its laments, but whispered of its loss through every pile of scalded timber and skinny, wavering shadow cast by the hollow towers of ash.

I felt prepared when I made the decision to become a scout. I love nature and camping. I love the Scouts BSA program. I love the people. I was definitely not prepared, however, for the numerous challenges I would face during my years as a scout.

I was the first female “boy scout” in my town, which continues to be both my greatest honor and a constant reminder of the isolation and insecurity that comes with being any “first.” I became a symbol, whether for good or bad, and my actions not only spoke of me, but of the future young women in Scouts BSA. I felt like an imposter.

I wasn’t a strong-willed leader like those who usually have “first” stitched into their title. My seventh-grade acting career did little to veil a shy and insecure girl who crumbled at overheard comments on how I didn’t belong or how girls like me were poisoning BSA’s spirit. As time passed, I found myself waiting to develop the toughened heart that the leaders that I knew held. As my troop and I backpacked in Philmont Scout Ranch this past summer, my doubts and insecurities seemed to echo from this inky forest.

Coming from Pittsburgh, I had expected the kind of desert with raspy air and coat hanger cacti. Nothing quite shattered this expectation as much as putting on my last pair of dry socks before the fourth day of downpours. We navigated steep cliffs and vibrant meadows, and pulled ourselves up peak after peak. As the sun set on one of our final evenings, the flat, mountain-ornamented horizon gave way to a modest footpath, daring into a new forest. This forest, differing from the field of burnt pines we had seen prior, had burned several decades ago. The fire had cleared everything and had left its signature singed onto the bottom 10 feet of every tree. The forest floor was clean. Wild grasses with accents of purple and blue flowers blanketed the ground below the pines like snow, which had fallen while the world was asleep, completely untouched and extending to infinity. Above the burnt limbs of the trees, thick bundles of green needles soared into the sky.

Not long after Philmont, I was awarded my Eagle Rank, the culmination of my experience as a scout. I believe that my time in Scouts BSA has been the first to the forest that is my life. Though scars remain from my experience, new change and strength have flourished out of the damage.

I have come to the conclusion that it is not always the fierce leader who becomes a “first.” It is the extra hours. It is finding a way to listen to criticism and try harder, rather than feel the thorns. It is using one’s own feeling of isolation to see others who feel alone. It is the act of going through the fire and staying with it, allowing it to advance you, which changes people who dare to be a “first” into the leaders that they go down in history as being.

As I think back on my experience in Philmont, the first forest we saw, this blackened graveyard, is what I picture. I remember the charcoaled ground so vividly, but more so, I remember the soft purple wildflowers hidden in the desert soil. Though few and far between, against the grieving timber, they were stars.

I’m 6. The sounds of hornpipe and laughter drift across the gymnasium-turned-cafeteria-turned-auditorium. Mum caught me dancing to some of her old Irish tapes — the Chieftains, Sinead O’Connor. She asked me if I wanted to do it for real. I said sure and went back to dancing. Now a freckled woman digs around in a cardboard box and pulls out a pair of dusty, worn black shoes. “Don’t worry,” she says, “you’ll learn eventually.” The shoes are too big; they sag at the toes. I approach the stage. Twenty-five pairs of eyes fix on me. In a room bustling with motion, everything stands still. It doesn’t matter that I feel like a clown in an ill-fitting costume. All that matters is the dancing.

I’m 9. I sit in the hallway of the Times Square Marriott watching girls in big wigs and sparkly dresses run around, squawking like glamorous, unhinged chickens. In my tartan skirt and simple bun, I feel like an ugly duckling. The bobby pins dutifully securing my bun in place make my scalp ache. My hands slide to my shoes. They’re too tight. Mum put them on her feet to “try and stretch them out a little.” I pass some over-enthusiastic dance moms who put the “mother” in “smother.” I reach the stage. A hundred pairs of eyes fix on me. In a hotel bustling with motion, everything stands still. It doesn’t matter that I’m out of place. All that matters is the dancing.

I’m 12. My brain won’t stop flipping through disastrous scenarios as I stand with my teammates in a hotel in Orlando, Florida. We’ve trained for months, sacrificed everything for this moment. I try to think of happy things: the pride on Dad’s face when he watches me dance, the freedom of flying across a stage on invisible wings. We recite our steps like a poem, the sequences like a song that carries us through an ocean of fiddles, pipes, and drums. My parents sacrificed a lot to send me here. I want to make them proud. I want to make myself proud. We approach the national stage. A thousand pairs of eyes fix on me. In a world bustling with motion, everything stands still. It doesn’t matter that I feel like a fraud. All that matters is the dancing.

I’m 15. An Irish accent lilts through the ballroom of the World Championships. It sounds like mashed potatoes and Sunday bests and the green hills of home that I know so well. We mutter a prayer. I’m not sure I believe in God, though I should. I look at my partner and wish we were more than friends. She smiles. I don’t think God believes in me. We ascend the stage. A million pairs of eyes fix on me. In a universe bustling with motion, everything stands still. It doesn’t matter that I’ll never be enough. All that matters is the dancing.

I’ll be 18. Murmuring voices will hover in the air of the gymnasium-turned-cafeteria-turned-auditorium. A little girl will approach me timidly, wearing a very old tartan skirt. I’ll reach out softly, adjusting her bun to soothe her aching scalp. Then, I’ll slide my hands toward her feet, toward a pair of small, dusty shoes. “You’ll learn,” I’ll say. They’ll sag at the toes, but I’ll reassure her: “Don’t worry. You’ll grow into them.” Then, she and I will look at my own beloved shoes. They’ll be worn, but I’ll tell her the creases are like a map, evidence of the places I’ve been, the heartbreaks I’ve suffered, the joy I’ve danced. My life is in these shoes. We’ll hear the music begin to play, the tide of fiddles, and pipes, and drums. I’ll take her hand and, with a deep breath, we’ll climb the stage. “Ahd mor.” It won’t matter that this is the end. All that has ever mattered is the dancing.

The black void descends toward the young girl standing in the grassy field. It slowly creeps up on her, and as it reaches for her perfectly white dress … Swipe. I quickly wipe away the paint without a thought except for panic. Before I realize what I have done, the black droop becomes an ugly smear of black paint. The peaceful picture of the girl standing in the meadow is nowhere to be seen. Even though I successfully avoid having the spilled paint touch the dress, all I can focus on is the black smudge. The stupid black smudge. As I continue to stare at the enemy in front of me, I hear Bob Ross’s annoyingly cheerful voice in my head: “There are no mistakes, only happy accidents.” At this moment, I completely disagree. There is nothing happy about this, only frustration.

Actually, there is one other emotion: excitement. Don’t get me wrong; I’m not excited about making a mistake and definitely not happy about the accident. But I am thrilled at the challenge. The black smudge is taunting me, challenging me to fix the painting that took me hours to do. It is my opponent, and I am not planning to back off, not planning to lose.

Looking back at the painting, I refuse to see only the black smudge. If lacrosse has taught me one thing, it is that I will not be bested by my mistakes. I snatch my picture and run downstairs, carefully setting it against the living room window. The TV newscaster drones in the background, “California continues to be engulfed in flames as the fires continue to burn.” I slowly step back from my painting. California fires, I think, as I look up into the blood-orange sky. California Fires! I look at the painting, imagining the black smudge not as a black void, but smoke creeping up on the girl as she watches the meadow burn.

I grab my painting and run back to my room. The orange sky casts eerie shadows as I throw open my blinds. My hands reach first toward the reds, oranges, and yellows: reds as rich as blood; oranges as beautiful as California poppies; yellows as bright as the sun. I splatter them on my palette, making a beautiful assortment of colors that reminds me of one thing: fire. A rich, beautiful, bright thing, but at the same time, dangerous. My hand levitates toward the white and black. White, my ally: peaceful, wonderful, simple white. Black, my enemy: annoying, frustrating, chaotic black. I splat both of them onto a different palette as I create different shades of gray.

My brush first dips into red, orange, and yellow as I create the flame around the girl. The flame engulfs the meadow, each stroke of red covering the serene nature. Next is the smoke, I sponge the dull colors onto the canvas, hazing over the fire and the trees, and, most importantly, hiding the smudge.

But it doesn’t work. It just looks like more blobs to cover the black smudge. What could make the gray paint turn into the hazy clouds that I have been experiencing for the past several days? I crack my knuckles in habit, and that’s when a new idea pops into my head. My calloused fingers dip into the cold, slimy gray paint, which slowly warms as I rub it between my fingers. My fingers descend onto the canvas, and as they brush against the fabric, I can feel the roughness of the dried paint as I add the new layer. As I work, the tension from my body releases. With each stroke of my fingers, I see what used to be the blobs turn into the thing that has kept me inside my house for weeks. As I lift my last finger off the canvas, I step back and gaze at my new creation. I have won.

I sat on my parents’ bed weeping with my head resting on my knees. “Why did you have to do that to me? Why did you have to show me the house and then take it away from me?” Hopelessly, I found myself praying to God realizing it was my last resort.

For years, my family and I found ourselves moving from country to country in hopes of a better future. Factors, such as war and lack of academic opportunities, led my parents to pack their bags and embark on a new journey for our family around the world. Our arduous journey first began in Kuçovë, Albania, then Athens, Greece, and then eventually, Boston, Massachusetts. Throughout those years, although my family always had a roof over our heads, I never had a place I could call “home.”

That night that I prayed to God, my mind raced back to the night I was clicking the delete button on my e-mails, but suddenly stopped when I came upon a listing of the house. It was September 22, 2007 —eight years exactly to the day that my family and I had moved to the United States. Instantly, I knew that it was fate that was bringing this house to me. I remembered visiting that yellow house the next day with my parents and falling in love with it. However, I also remembered the heartbreaking phone call I received later on that week saying that the owners had chosen another family’s offer.

A week after I had prayed to God, I had given up any hopes of my family buying the house. One day after school, I unlocked the door to our one-bedroom apartment and walked over to the telephone only to see it flashing a red light. I clicked PLAY and unexpectedly heard the voice of our real estate agent. “Eda!” she said joyfully. “The deal fell through with the other family—the house is yours! Call me back immediately to get started on the papers.” For a moment, I stood agape and kept replaying the words in my head. Was this really happening to me? Was my dream of owning a home finally coming true?

Over the month of November, I spent my days going to school and immediately rushing home to make phone calls. Although my parents were not fluent enough in English to communicate with the bank and real estate agent, I knew that I was not going to allow this obstacle to hinder my dream of helping to purchase a home for my family. Thus, unlike a typical thirteen-year-old girl’s conversations, my phone calls did not involve the mention of makeup, shoes, or boys. Instead, my conversations were composed of terms, such as “fixed-rate mortgages,” “preapprovals,” and “down payments.” Nevertheless, I was determined to help purchase this home after thirteen years of feeling embarrassed from living in a one-bedroom apartment. No longer was I going to experience feelings of humiliation from not being able to host sleepovers with my friends or from not being able to gossip with girls in school about who had the prettiest room color.

I had been homeless for the first thirteen years of my life. Although I will never be able to fully repay my parents for all of their sacrifices, the least I could do was to help find them a home that they could call their own—and that year, I did. To me, a home means more than the general conception of “four walls and a roof.” A home is a place filled with memories and laughter from my family. No matter where my future may lead me, I know that if at times I feel alone, I will always have a yellow home with my family inside waiting for me.

Garishly lined with a pearlescent lavender, my eyes idly scanned the haphazard desk in front of me, settling on a small kohl. I packed the ebony powder into my waterline with a shaky hand, wincing at the fine specks making their way into my eyes.

The girl in the mirror seemed sharper, older, somehow. At only 12, I was relatively new to the powders and blushes that lined my birthday makeup kit, but I was determined to decipher the deep splashes of color that had for so long been an enigma to me.

After school involved self-inflicted solitary confinement, as I shut myself in my bedroom to hone my skills. The palette’s colors bore in, the breadth of my imagination interwoven into now-brittle brushes. Much to my chagrin, my mom walked in one day, amused at my smudged lipstick, which congealed on the wispy hairs that lined my upper lip.

“Halloween already?” she asked playfully.

I flushed in embarrassment as she got to work, smoothing my skin with a brush and filling the gaps in my squiggly liner. Becoming a makeup aficionado was going to take some help.

“What’s this even made of?” I asked, transfixed by the bright powder she was smattering on my cheeks.

“You know, I’m not sure,” she murmured. “Maybe you should find out.”

I did.

Hours down the internet rabbit hole, I learned that the shimmery powder was made of mica, a mineral commonly used in cosmetics. While the substance was dazzling, its production process was steeped in humanitarian violations and environmental damage. Determined to reconcile my burgeoning love for makeup with my core values, I flung the kit into the corner of my drawer, vowing to find a more sustainable alternative. Yes, I was every bit as dramatic as you imagine it.

Now 17, I approach ethical makeup with assured deliberation. As I glance at my dusty kit, which still sits where I left it, I harken back on the journey it has taken me on. Without the reckoning that it spurred, makeup would still simply be a tool of physical transformation, rather than a catalyst of personal growth.

Now, each swipe of eyeliner is a stroke of my pen across paper as I write a children’s book about conscious consumerism. My flitting fingers programmatically place sparkles, mattes, and tints across my face in the same way that they feverishly move across a keyboard, watching algorithms and graphs integrate into models of supply chain transparency. Makeup has taught me to be unflinching, both in self expression and my expectations for the future. I coat my lips with a bold sheen, preparing them to form words of unequivocal urgency at global conferences and casual discussions. I see my passion take flight, emboldening others to approach their own reckonings, uncomfortable as they may be. I embark on a two-year journey of not buying new clothes in a statement against mass consumption and rally youth into a unified organization. We stand together, picking at the gritty knots of makeup, corporate accountability, and sustainability as they slowly unravel.

I’m not sure why makeup transfixes me. Perhaps it’s because I enjoy seeing my reveries take shape. Yukta, the wannabe Wicked Witch of the West, has lids coated with emerald luster and lips of coal. Yukta, the Indian classical dancer, wields thick eyeliner and bright crimson lipstick that allow her expressions to be amplified across a stage. Deep rooted journeys of triumph and tribulation are plastered across the surface of my skin — this paradox excites me.

Perhaps I am also drawn to makeup because as I peel back the layers, I am still wholly me. I am still the young girl staring wide-eyed at her reflection, earnestly questioning in an attempt to learn more about the world. Most importantly, I still carry an unflagging vigor to coalesce creativity and activism into palpable change, one brushstroke at a time.

My Ye-Ye always wears a red baseball cap. I think he likes the vivid color—bright and sanguine, like himself. When Ye-Ye came from China to visit us seven years ago, he brought his red cap with him and every night for six months, it sat on the stairway railing post of my house, waiting to be loyally placed back on Ye-Ye’s head the next morning. He wore the cap everywhere: around the house, where he performed magic tricks with it to make my little brother laugh; to the corner store, where he bought me popsicles before using his hat to wipe the beads of summer sweat off my neck. Today whenever I see a red hat, I think of my Ye-Ye and his baseball cap, and I smile.

Ye-Ye is the Mandarin word for “grandfather.” My Ye-Ye is a simple, ordinary person—not rich, not “successful”—but he is my greatest source of inspiration and I idolize him. Of all the people I know, Ye-Ye has encountered the most hardship and of all the people I know, Ye-Ye is the most joyful. That these two aspects can coexist in one individual is, in my mind, truly remarkable.

Ye-Ye was an orphan. Both his parents died before he was six years old, leaving him and his older brother with no home and no family. When other children gathered to read around stoves at school, Ye-Ye and his brother walked in the bitter cold along railroad tracks, looking for used coal to sell. When other children ran home to loving parents, Ye-Ye and his brother walked along the streets looking for somewhere to sleep. Eight years later, Ye-Ye walked alone—his brother was dead.

Ye-Ye managed to survive, and in the meanwhile taught himself to read, write, and do arithmetic. Life was a blessing, he told those around him with a smile.

Years later, Ye-Ye’s job sent him to the Gobi Desert, where he and his fellow workers labored for twelve hours a day. The desert wind was merciless; it would snatch their tent in the middle of the night and leave them without supply the next morning. Every year, harsh weather took the lives of some fellow workers.

After eight years, Ye-Ye was transferred back to the city where his wife lay sick in bed. At the end of a twelve-hour workday, Ye-Ye took care of his sick wife and three young children. He sat with the children and told them about the wide, starry desert sky and mysterious desert lives. Life was a blessing, he told them with a smile.

But life was not easy; there was barely enough money to keep the family from starving. Yet, my dad and his sisters loved going with Ye-Ye to the market. He would buy them little luxuries that their mother would never indulge them in: a small bag of sunflower seeds for two cents, a candy each for three cents. Luxuries as they were, Ye-Ye bought them without hesitation. Anything that could put a smile on the children’s faces and a skip in their steps was priceless.

Ye-Ye still goes to the market today. At the age of seventy-eight, he bikes several kilometers each week to buy bags of fresh fruits and vegetables, and then bikes home to share them with his neighbors. He keeps a small patch of strawberries and an apricot tree. When the fruit is ripe, he opens his gate and invites all the children in to pick and eat. He is Ye-Ye to every child in the neighborhood.

I had always thought that I was sensible and self-aware. But nothing has made me stare as hard in the mirror as I did after learning about the cruel past that Ye-Ye had suffered and the cheerful attitude he had kept throughout those years. I thought back to all the times when I had gotten upset. My mom forgot to pick me up from the bus station. My computer crashed the day before an assignment was due. They seemed so trivial and childish, and I felt deeply ashamed of myself.

Now, whenever I encounter an obstacle that seems overwhelming, I think of Ye-Ye; I see him in his red baseball cap, smiling at me. Like a splash of cool water, his smile rouses me from grief, and reminds me how trivial my worries are and how generous life has been. Today I keep a red baseball cap at the railing post at home where Ye-Ye used to put his every night. Whenever I see the cap, I think of my Ye-Ye, smiling in his red baseball cap, and I smile. Yes, Ye-Ye. Life is a blessing.

Red, orange, purple, gold...I was caught in a riot of shifting colors. I pranced up and down the hill, my palms extended to the moving collage of butterflies that surrounded me. “Would you like to learn how to catch one?” Grandfather asked, holding out a glass jar. “Yes!” I cheered, his huge calloused fingers closing my chubby five-year-old hands around it carefully.

Grandfather put his finger to his lips, and I obliged as I watched him deftly maneuver his net. He caught one marvelous butterfly perched on a flower, and I clutched the open jar in anticipation as he slid the butterfly inside. It quivered and fell to the bottom of the jar, and I gasped. It struggled until its wings, ablaze in a glory of orange and red, quivered to a stop. I watched, wide-eyed, as it stopped moving. “Grandpa! What’s happening?”

My grandfather had always had a collection of butterflies, but that was the first time I saw him catch one. After witnessing the first butterfly die, I begged him to keep them alive; I even secretly let some of them go. Therefore, to compromise, he began carrying a special jar for the days I accompanied him on his outings, a jar to keep the living butterflies. But the creatures we caught always weakened and died after a few days in captivity, no matter how tenderly I fed and cared for them. Grandfather took me aside and explained that the lifespan of an adult butterfly was very short. They were not meant to live forever: their purpose was to flame brilliantly and then fade away. Thus, his art serves as a memory of their beauty, an acknowledgement of nature’s ephemeral splendor.

But nothing could stay the same. I moved to America and as the weekly excursions to the mountainside ended, so did our lessons in nature and science. Although six thousand miles away, I would never forget how my grandpa’s wrinkles creased when he smiled or how he always smelled like mountain flowers.

As I grew older and slowly understood how Grandfather lived his life, I began to follow in his footsteps. He protected nature’s beauty from decay with his art, and in the same way, I tried to protect my relationships, my artwork, and my memories. I surrounded myself with the journals we wrote together, but this time I recorded my own accomplishments, hoping to one day show him what I had done. I recorded everything, from the first time I spent a week away from home to the time I received a gold medal at the top of the podium at the California Tae Kwon Do Competition. I filled my new home in America with the photographs from my childhood and began to create art of my own. Instead of catching butterflies like my grandpa, I began experimenting with butterfly wing art as my way of preserving nature’s beauty. Soon my home in America became a replica of my home in China, filled from wall to wall with pictures and memories.

Nine long years passed before I was reunited with him. The robust man who once chased me up the hillside had developed arthritis, and his thick black hair had turned white. The grandfather I saw now was not the one I knew; we had no hobby and no history in common, and he became another adult, distant and unapproachable. With this, I forgot all about the journals and photos that I had kept and wanted to share with him.

After weeks of avoidance, I gathered my courage and sat with him once again. This time, I carried a large, leather-bound book with me. “Grandfather,” I began, and held out the first of my many journals. These were my early days in America, chronicled through pictures, art, and neatly-printed English. On the last page was a photograph of me and my grandfather, a net in his hand and a jar in mine. As I saw our faces, shining with proud smiles, I began to remember our days on the mountainside, catching butterflies and halting nature’s eventual decay.

My grandfather has weakened over the years, but he is still the wise man who raised me and taught me the value of capturing the beauty of life. Although he has grown old, I have grown up. His legs are weak, but his hands are still as gentle as ever. Therefore, this time, it will be different. This time, I will no longer recollect memories, but create new ones.

“You should scrub off the top layer of your skin whenever you lose a round,” my debate teammate once advised me.

“That’s not practical,” I replied.

“Neither is your refusal to wear clothes you’ve lost important debate rounds in. Your wardrobe has very little to do with your success.”

Half of me disagrees with him. I still bring three BIC Round Stic pencils with 0.7 lead to every test because my gut tells me this fastidious procedure raises my scores. I’m still convinced that labs receive better grades if written in Calibri. And I still won’t rewear clothes in which I’ve lost crucial rounds.

Yet the other half of me is equally dismissive of my own superstitions. I love logic, never failing to check that steps in a proof lead to a precise conclusion without gaps in reasoning.

Fortunately, I often abandon my penchant for pragmatism to accommodate for my unwarranted superstitions. And since I only feel the need to act logicalcally in selective situations, I am perfectly content with the illogical nature of my other habits:

Raised with my great-grandmother, grandparents, and parents all under one roof, I never lacked a consultant to help me transcribe Korean holiday dates from the lunar calendar onto my schedule. Yet whenever all four generations of my family celebrates with a traditional meal of bulgogi, my untraceable and admittedly nonexistent Italian blood flares in protest; I rebelliously cook myself linguine con le vongole that clashes terribly with my mom’s pungent kimchi.

If I plot a graph of “hours I spend in physical activity” versus “week of the year,” the result looks like an irregular cardiac cycle. The upsurges symbolize my battles with colossal walls of water in hopes of catching a smooth surf back to Mission Bay shore. The ensuing period of rest mirrors the hours I spend researching in that one spot in my debate team’s war room that isn’t covered in papers (yet), or at the piano sight-reading the newest Adele song. Then the diastolic tranquility is interrupted by the weekends when I’m sprinting through trenches to avoid paintballs swarming above my favorite arena at Paintball USA.

I find comfort in the familiar. I treasure the regular midnight chats with my brother as we indulge in batter while baking cupcakes for a friend’s birthday, keeping our voices hushed to avoid waking our mom and facing her “salmonella is in your near future” lecture. Yet, some of my fondest memories involve talking to people with whom I share nothing in common. Whether my conversations are about the Qatari coach’s research on Kuwait’s female voting patterns, or about the infinite differences between the “common app” and the Oxford interviewing process, or even about my friend’s Swedish school’s peculiar policy of mandating uniforms only on Wednesdays, I love comparing cultures with debaters from different countries.

My behavior is unpredictable. Yet it’s predictably unpredictable. Sure, I’ll never eat a Korean dinner like one might expect. But I’ll always be cooking linguine the moment I catch a whiff of kimchi.

Several years ago, my mother told me I listen to “white people music.” And I suppose that’s true—rock 'n' roll tends to spring from the middle-class basements of young, white men. Though I did point out that its origins trace back to jazz musicians of the Harlem Renaissance. Also that one of the greatest guitarists of all time—dear Mr.Hendrix; may he rest in peace—was black.

My devotion to punk rock began in seventh grade, when Green Day’s “Boulevard of Broken Dreams” came up on my iTunes shuffle. I started to look into their other releases, eventually immersing myself into the complete punk discography. My mother, having grown up
in a racially segregated New York, was more likely to listen to Stevie Wonder than Stevie Nicks.

But, she must have figured, to each her own. So while my compatriots indulged in the music of Taylor Swift, One Direction, and Lady
Gaga, my tacky Hot Topic headphones blasted Green Day, Ramones, and The Clash. My young adolescent ears drank in the raw, chaotic beauty, an echo of the pain of the past. The thrashing, pulsating vitality of the instruments painted a picture, connecting me to the disillusioned kids who launched an epic movement of liberation some 40 years ago.

Punkers question authority. Aggressively contrarian, they advocate for the other side—the side that seemed smothered silent during the post-Vietnam era. They rejected the established norms. They spoke out and weren’t afraid.

I had always felt different from my peers. In my girls’s prep school, the goal was to be blond and good at soccer. I was neither, which automatically deemed me “uncool”. I had a few close friends but never felt like I was part of a whole.

Then came the punk philosophy, for the outliers, for those who were different. That was something I could be part of.

Instead of trying to conform to my peers, I adopted an anti-conformist attitude. Much like the prematurely gray anti-hero of my favorite book, I sneered at all the “phonies” around me. I resented anything popular. Uggs? Wouldn’t buy them. Yoga pants? Never. Starbucks?Well, I could make a few concessions.

But I felt more cynical than liberated. I wasted so much energy on being different than I lost track of what actually made me happy. I insisted I didn’t care what people thought of me, which was true. Yet if I based my actions almost solely on their behavior, how could I deny their influence?

Luckily, as I transitioned from a private school to a brand new public high school, I got to clean the slate. I bought yoga pants and found they were comfortable. I listened to a wide variety of music, even the eh kind that wasn’t 100% hardcore punk. And I was happier.

I revised my punk philosophy: Do as you like—whether it fits into the “system” or not.

The Beatles’s “Revolution” lyrics sum it up well:

You tell me it’s the institution

Well, you know

You’d better free your mind instead

What I think Lennon was getting at is questioning everything does not entail opposing everything. Defiance for the sake of defiance is unproductive at best, destructive at worst. I believe in life’s greater Truths, like Love and Justice. These Truths are what should govern my actions—not what’s popular and what isn’t. Striving to act on these ideals has helped me stay true to myself, regardless of what’s considered “conformist."

Perhaps I’ve failed the punk movement. We’ll have to wait and see. In the meantime, I’ll do what makes me happy and change what doesn’t. I’ll wear Doc Martens instead of Uggs; I’ll partake in a grande pumpkin spice latte; I’ll watch Gossip Girl; I’ll blare my favorite guitar solo over the speakers in my room.

And that’s as punk as it gets.

Gazing up at the starry sky, I see Cygnus, Hercules, and Pisces, remnants of past cultures. I listen to waves crash on the beach, the forces of nature at work. Isn’t it odd how stars are flaming spheres and electrical impulses make beings sentient? The very existence of our world is a wonder; what are the odds that this particular planet developed all the necessary components, parts that all work in unison, to support life? How do they interact? How did they come to be? I thought back to how my previously simplistic mind-set evolved this past year.

At Balboa, juniors and seniors join one of five small learning communities, which are integrated into the curriculum. Near the end of sophomore year, I ranked my choices: Law Academy first—it seemed the most prestigious—and WALC, the Wilderness Arts and Literacy Collaborative, fourth. So when I was sorted into WALC, I felt disappointed at the inflexibility of my schedule and bitter toward my classes. However, since students are required to wait at least a semester before switching pathways, I stayed in WALC. My experiences that semester began shifting my ambition-oriented paradigm to an interest-oriented one. I didn’t switch out.

Beyond its integrated classes, WALC takes its students on trips to natural areas not only to build community among its students, but also to explore complex natural processes and humanity’s role in them. Piecing these lessons together, I create an image of our universe. I can visualize the carving of glacial valleys, the creation and gradation of mountains by uplift and weathering, and the transportation of nutrients to and from ecosystems by rivers and salmon. I see these forces on the surface of a tiny planet rotating on its axis and orbiting the sun, a gem in this vast universe. Through WALC, I have gained an intimate understanding of natural systems and an addiction to understanding the deep interconnections embedded in our cosmos.

Understanding a system’s complex mechanics not only satisfies my curiosity, but also adds beauty to my world; my understanding of tectonic and gradational forces allows me to appreciate mountains and coastlines beyond aesthetics. By physically going to the place described in WALC’s lessons, I have not only gained the tools to admire these systems, but have also learned to actually appreciate them. This creates a thirst to see more beauty in a world that’s filled with poverty and violence, and a hunger for knowledge to satisfy that thirst. There are so many different systems to examine and dissect—science alone has universal, planetary, molecular, atomic, and subatomic scales to investigate. I hope to be able to find my interests by taking a variety of courses in college, and further humanity’s understanding through research, so that all can derive a deeper appreciation for the complex systems that govern this universe.

Finally, I had found a volunteer opportunity at the Long Marine Lab, a marine biology research facility at UC Santa Cruz! I envisioned swimming with dolphins, or perhaps studying behavioral patterns of decorator crabs. But when I discovered the nature of my work on the first day of volunteering, my excitement turned to disappointment: I’d be picking through albatross boluses, the indigestible materials they cough up before going to sea. Sure enough, after three hours of separating fishing line from brown muck, I began to dread what I was in for. At that point, I had no clue of just how interesting the opportunity would turn out to be, and it would remind me of how easily I become engrossed and fascinated by all sorts of random stuff.

It didn’t take long for my boredom with the boluses to shift toward curiosity. In the first place, the project itself was fascinating. The idea was to research the behavior and diet of albatrosses at sea. These birds can fly for months without touching land! When the birds have chicks, they cough up whatever they’ve eaten at sea to feed their young. When the chicks become old enough to fly, they cough up the hard, indigestible materials left in their stomachs. These boluses contain squid beaks that can reveal the types of squid eaten and the area where the squid were caught. We volunteers would pick through the boluses, separating out anything that looked interesting.

As I got better at dissecting these blobs, I started finding crazy stuff, and my colleagues and I would often discuss important findings. There was, of course, the search for the biggest squid beak, and the fish eyes were always interesting. But most shocking was the plastic. Beyond the normal Styrofoam and fishing line were plastic bottle caps, lighters, even toothbrushes. Occasionally, Asian writing revealed distant origins. Once, I picked through a bolus permeated with orange goo, eventually to discover the round mouthpiece of a balloon. The origins of these artifacts were sad, but also fascinating. I learned of the Texas-sized trash heap in the middle of the Pacific, the effects of which I was witnessing firsthand. I gained a heightened awareness of the damage inflicted on the oceans by humans, and their far-reaching impacts. Perhaps most importantly, I realized that even the most tedious things can blow my mind.

If dissecting boluses can be so interesting, imagine the things I’ve yet to discover! I play piano and can see myself dedicating my life to the instrument, but I can’t bear to think of everything else I’d have to miss. I’d love to study albatrosses, but also particle physics or history, and preferably all three. At this point in my life, I can’t imagine picking just one area. At the same time, though, I love studying subjects in depth. I tend to get overwhelmed by my options, since I can’t possibly choose them all. But at least I know I’ll never be bored in life: there are just too many subjects to learn about, books to read, pieces to play, albatrosses to save, and boluses to dissect.

James was not fitting in with everyone else. During lunch, he sat alone, playing with his own toys. During group activities, the other campers always complained when paired with him. What was wrong? As camp counselor, I quietly observed his behavior—nothing out of the ordinary. I just couldn’t fathom why the other campers treated him like a pariah.

After three days of ostracism, James broke down during a game of soccer. Tears streaming down his cheeks, he slumped off the field, head in his hands. I jogged toward him, my forehead creased with concern. Some campers loudly remarked, “Why is that creep crying?” Furious indignation leaped into my heart. They were the ones who “accidentally” bumped into him and called him “James the Freak.” It was their cruelty that caused his meltdown, and now they were mocking him for it. I sharply told them to keep their thoughts to themselves. I squatted beside James and asked him what was wrong. Grunting, he turned his back to me. I had to stop his tears, and I had to make him feel comfortable. So for the next hour, I talked about everything a seven-year-old boy might find interesting, from sports to Transformers.

“I have a question,” I asked as James began to warm to me. I took a deep breath and dove right into the problem. “Why do the other campers exclude you?” Hesitantly, he took off his shoes and socks, and pointed at his left foot. One, two, three … four. He had four toes. We had gone swimming two days before: All the campers must have noticed. I remembered my childhood, when even the smallest abnormality—a bad haircut, a missing tooth—could cause others, including myself, to shrink away. I finally understood.

But what could I do to help? I scoured my mind for the words to settle his demons. But nothing came to me. Impulsively, I hugged him—a gesture of intimacy we camp leaders were encouraged not to initiate, and an act I later discovered no friend had ever offered James before. Then, I put my hand on his shoulder and looked him straight in the eyes. I assured him that external features didn’t matter, and that as long as he was friendly, people would eventually come around. I listed successful individuals who had not been hindered by their abnormalities. And finally, I told him he would always be my favorite camper, regardless of whether he had two, five, or a hundred toes.

On the last day of camp, I was jubilant—James was starting to fit in. Although the teasing had not completely disappeared, James was speaking up and making friends. And when, as we were saying our good-byes, James gave me one last hug and proclaimed that I was his “bestest friend in the whole wide world,” my heart swelled up. From my campers, I learned that working with children is simply awesome. And from James, I learned that a little love truly goes a long way.

In hazy stillness, a sudden flurry of colored skirts, whispers of “Merde!” Sternly, my fingers smooth back my hair, although they know no loose strands will be found. My skin absorbs heat from stage lights above—if only that heat would seep into my brain, denature some proteins, and deactivate the neurons stressing me out. A warm hand, accompanied by an even warmer smile, interrupts my frenzied solitude. I glance up. My lovely teacher nods, coaxing my frozen lips into a thawed smile. A complex figure, filled in with doubt, yet finished with shades of confidence: My body takes its place and waits.

One, two, three, four; two, two, three, four. On stage, the lights and music wash over me. Never having had a true ballet solo before, my lungs are one breath away from hyperventilating. Trying to achieve a Zen-like state, I imagine a field of daisies, yet my palms continue sweating disobediently. It’s not that I’ve never been on stage alone before; I’ve had plenty of piano recitals and competitions. Yet, while both performances consume my mind and soul, ballet demands complete commitment of my body.

Gently slide into arabesque and lean downward; try not to fall flat on face—Mom’s videotaping. In terms of mentality, I would hardly be described as an introvert; yet, a fear of failure has still kept me from taking risks. Maybe I was scared of leaping too high, falling too far, and hitting the hard floor. As I moved up in the cutthroat world of dance, this fear only increased; the pressure of greater expectations and the specter of greater embarrassment had held me contained. Now, every single eyeball is on me.

Lean extra in this pirouette; it’s more aesthetic. But is it always better to be safe than sorry? Glancing toward the wings, I see my teacher’s wild gesticulations: Stretch your arms out, she seems to mime, More! A genuine smile replaces one of forced enthusiasm; alone on the stage, this is my chance to shine. I breathe in the movements, forget each individual step. More than just imagining, but finally experiencing the jubilation of the music, I allow my splits to stretch across the stage and my steps to extend longer and longer, until I’m no longer safe and my heart is racing. Exhilarated and scared in the best way, I throw myself into my jumps. I no longer need to imagine scenes to get in the mood; the emotions are twirling and leaping within me.

Reaching, stretching, grabbing, flinging ... My fear no longer shields me. I find my old passion for ballet, and remember the grace and poise that can nevertheless convey every color of emotion. Playing it safe will leave me part of the backdrop; only by taking risks can I step into the limelight. Maybe I’ll fall, but the rush is worth it. I’ll captain an all-male science bowl team, run a marathon, audition for a musical, and embrace the physical and intellectual elation of taking risks.

I sat on my parents’ bed weeping with my head resting on my knees. “Why did you have to do that to me? Why did you have to show me the house and then take it away from me?” Hopelessly, I found myself praying to God realizing it was my last resort.

For years, my family and I found ourselves moving from country to country in hopes of a better future. Factors, such as war and lack of academic opportunities, led my parents to pack their bags and embark on a new journey for our family around the world. Our arduous journey first began in Kuçovë, Albania, then Athens, Greece, and then eventually, Boston, Massachusetts. Throughout those years, although my family always had a roof over our heads, I never had a place I could call “home.”

That night that I prayed to God, my mind raced back to the night I was clicking the delete button on my e-mails, but suddenly stopped when I came upon a listing of the house. It was September 22, 2007 —eight years exactly to the day that my family and I had moved to the United States. Instantly, I knew that it was fate that was bringing this house to me. I remembered visiting that yellow house the next day with my parents and falling in love with it. However, I also remembered the heartbreaking phone call I received later on that week saying that the owners had chosen another family’s offer.

A week after I had prayed to God, I had given up any hopes of my family buying the house. One day after school, I unlocked the door to our one-bedroom apartment and walked over to the telephone only to see it flashing a red light. I clicked PLAY and unexpectedly heard the voice of our real estate agent. “Eda!” she said joyfully. “The deal fell through with the other family—the house is yours! Call me back immediately to get started on the papers.” For a moment, I stood agape and kept replaying the words in my head. Was this really happening to me? Was my dream of owning a home finally coming true?

Over the month of November, I spent my days going to school and immediately rushing home to make phone calls. Although my parents were not fluent enough in English to communicate with the bank and real estate agent, I knew that I was not going to allow this obstacle to hinder my dream of helping to purchase a home for my family. Thus, unlike a typical thirteen-year-old girl’s conversations, my phone calls did not involve the mention of makeup, shoes, or boys. Instead, my conversations were composed of terms, such as “fixed-rate mortgages,” “preapprovals,” and “down payments.” Nevertheless, I was determined to help purchase this home after thirteen years of feeling embarrassed from living in a one-bedroom apartment. No longer was I going to experience feelings of humiliation from not being able to host sleepovers with my friends or from not being able to gossip with girls in school about who had the prettiest room color.

I had been homeless for the first thirteen years of my life. Although I will never be able to fully repay my parents for all of their sacrifices, the least I could do was to help find them a home that they could call their own—and that year, I did. To me, a home means more than the general conception of “four walls and a roof.” A home is a place filled with memories and laughter from my family. No matter where my future may lead me, I know that if at times I feel alone, I will always have a yellow home with my family inside waiting for me.

I am completely Chinese. My parents are Chinese and I was born in China. However, as first generation immigrants, my family and I have been immersed in the French Canadian culture of Montreal and the American culture of Kansas City. I spent a measly five months in China after my birth, a seemingly short eight years in Montreal, and an even shorter nine years in Overland Park. At heart, I am Chinese like my background, but my childhood is colored by French influences and my adolescence is completely painted with the exuberant American character. As a result, a lot of my life has been categorized by my three countries and cultures: the languages I speak, the habits I have, and the aspirations I dream.

My college track, as of right now, is to double major in economics and mathematics while also minoring in French, but my ultimate goal is to make a positive and memorable impact on the world. Every subject field has a direct lineation to my different cultures, and the most obvious is my interest in French. While it may sound silly, I feel beautiful when speaking such a beautiful language, and I aim to further develop my linguistic foundation through a minor and studying abroad. My love for mathematics is most primarily rooted in my Chinese culture, as my father’s enthusiasm about little mathematical tricks is contagious. Finally, the opportunities and the boldness I find in American culture are best epitomized in its economic landmark: Wall Street.

Math had always been the easy, simple subject for me until calculus suddenly turned math into a terribly fascinating new world for me to explore. My paradigm regarding the seemingly rigid discipline shifted from indifference to a desire to learn how the puzzle pieces of the world clicked and fitted together. I hoped to spread that sentiment by establishing Mu Alpha Theta at my school, a chartering process that I expected to last at most two months.

That preconceived notion could not have been further from the truth. After an arduous month involving hours of research, several phone calls, and admittedly, some pestering, I gained approval to start the chartering process in the second semester of my junior year. Immediately, I wrote the charter application, bylaws, supplementary materials, and student application for the math department to review. Unfortunately, as each error was traded in with another, I realized that my predicted timeframe was an over-optimistic dream. The lag was attributed to the lack of cohesive communication and initiative; I kept pushing my responsibilities to the next week until there was no more time left. Consequently, I took greater measures to accomplish my goals by setting hard deadlines for myself and approaching the math teachers more frequently for feedback.

After seven months, the math department and I have just finished the application process and are reviewing the candidates. Seeing my passion manifest into a tangible organization excites me, and I hope that it does the same for my school’s community.

Honestly, I have had a pretty easy life.  I have never really gone without something I absolutely needed, and I have always attended good schools and lived in safe neighborhoods.  My parents raised me in a loving home, told me I was smart, and tried to help me be successful.   But almost everyone else I knew seemed to have those same things, and I never really gave the benefits of my life much thought.   Instead, I mostly coasted – focusing on playing sports, hanging out with my friends, and having fun.   It was not until my sophomore year of high school that I started to understand what my parents had been trying to teach me.

My brother graduated from high school at the same time I finished my freshman year.   I watched as he and his friends went off to college – all but his best friend, Jim.  Jim was a big dreamer, talker, and “coaster” – like me.   Jim had not spent much time studying in high school and could only get into community college.   When we talked, he did not seem down about going to community college and my initial thought was that it was no big deal.  However, a month or two into the next fall semester I noticed that Jim was still coming by the high school frequently, spending most of his time hanging out with younger teenagers,  and trying to relive his “glory days.”  He was not the happy guy I had known and it became all too clear that Jim was not prepared to take the next steps in his life.

That spring my parents announced it was time for me to get a job.  I found a position at a local bakery and made decent money for being sixteen – it was OK, for a job.  My boss was a nice, local guy in his early forties.  He was fun to talk with and had great stories about when he was a teenager.  But as I got to know him, underneath the “cool” exterior, I soon realized he was not happy.  His life had not turned out the way he had hoped, and he seemed lost and still looking for direction – he reminded me of Jim.

I personally do not think everyone needs to go to college to have a successful life, but everyone does need purpose and direction – both of which I did not have.  I began to worry what my life would become if I did not find them, and I decided I needed to make a change.  I asked my parents if I could get a tutor, asked for help from my teachers, and began getting involved in school clubs.  My parents were a little shocked and my history teacher, in particular, all but rolled her eyes the first time I asked for help preparing for a test – I think she thought I was trying to “work the system.”

I did not change overnight, but I continued to make significant progress.  My grades went from mostly “Cs,” with a few “Bs,” my first two years in high school to mostly “Bs,” with a few “As,” by the end of my junior year.  My history teacher even asked me to become her teacher’s assistant during a free period in my senior year class schedule, and the first semester of my senior year I made the all “A” honor roll.  I will never forget the look of pride and relief on my mother’s face.

While it may have taken me longer than others, I have learned the value of hard work and the importance of having purpose and direction in my life.  I am very excited to take the next steps and hope to have the opportunity to continue my journey at your university.

While I have never seen myself as a rebel, I am not a conformist and have never felt comfortable being labeled.  I like to sew, scrapbook, and wear pink, but I also like to hike through the woods, get dirty, and build things with tools.  When I turned fifteen, I looked for something different and unique that would be fun, challenging, and give me a sense of accomplishment.  I found it in Search and Rescue.

In King County, Washington youth over the age of fifteen are allowed to join the county Search and Rescue team if they complete a set of grueling trainings and pass a series of tests.  New recruits spend multiple weekends hiking, camping, doing physical fitness, and learning general wilderness survival and navigation skills.  Classes of recruits are usually eighty to ninety percent boys and my year was no exception.

My last test was a two-day navigation course in which we were required to traverse a large mountainous area using maps and compasses.  At the end of each task, we recorded how many feet we were away from the intended location and our total variation for all tasks could not exceed 300 feet.   The course took us through swamps, thickets, and other obstacles, and we had to successfully navigate each type of terrain.  At one point, we carried our fifty pound packs over our heads as we walked through water up to our armpits, but my group of three girls would not be outdone by the boys.

The last few miles were the hardest.  As we prepared for the final hike back to base camp, we were met by a truck of rangers.  They told us we could stop, but if we got in the truck we would not pass and would not be permitted to join the team.  We hiked the last few miles with our 50 pound packs on our backs, our cloths soaked, our feet covered in blisters, and snow starting to fall – all the time with the truck following closely behind. Our souls and wills seemed to go numb, and there was a constant temptation to give in, but we would not let each other quit. When we finally reached base camp and tallied our scores, we had stayed under the 300 feet threshold and were the only girls admitted to the program that year.  It was an amazing feeling.

Similarly, I will never forget the first time I saw a dead body.  We were asked to search for a mentally disabled man that had disappeared nearly a year before, but was never found.  His family needed closure, and we were tasked with searching an area not far from his house that had very dense vegetation.  My team members and I lined up about 10 feet from each other and began hacking away at the shrubs, vines, and tall grass.  After many hours, I discovered the body in my section.  The skeleton and decaying remains were clothed in the man’s t-shirt and boxer shorts – and his hat was not far away.  This scene, combined with the looks of both sorrow and relief on the faces of the man’s family, changed me.  I gained perspective on both the value and reality of life and was proud to be part of such a great organization that had truly made a difference for this family.

Through my experiences in Search and Rescue, I have learned to persevere and gained a new level of empathy for others.  In addition, I have a better perspective on life and am filled with a desire to choose activities that will have a positive impact on those around me.  These lessons and experiences have become part of who I am, and I look forward to building upon them as I embark on my next great adventure.

Ever since I was young, I’ve never been able to put down a good book. It’s a bit of a cliché to refer to yourself as a bookworm, but for all intents and purposes, I’ve always been a bit of a bookworm. When I was younger my mum used to read to me, so reading has always been an established part of my routine. When the first Harry Potter book came out, my mind was blown. I became absorbed into this fictional world, and was addicted to the escapism. This was the beginning of a life long appreciation of English Literature.

I first new I wanted to study English at university when I studied Wuthering Heights in class at high school. I was fascinated with how Heathcliff was portrayed as some kind of monster with redeemable features. I found myself in awe at this conflicted and tortured character that Bronte had created, and mused whether he was beyond redemption. I hadn’t read a book that had encapsulated such a dilemma before. I was hungry to get my hands on as many books as possible, and after reading some other classics like Of Mice and Men and In Cold Blood, our English class studied the plays Top Girls and The Doll House. At this point, my appreciation for literature reached new heights, as these were the first overtly political works that resonated with me. I was entranced by the ways these plays advanced the idea of Feminism. I wanted to read more, and I wanted to write more on what I’d read. I decided that I wanted to write as a career.

I knew I had to study at US University when I saw the shear diversity of your English course, and the overall climate of diversity that embodies your institution. I’m eager to read books from a broad range of authors from lots of different backgrounds and I find it motivating to see that this is a core part of your curriculum. I love literature, and I’m that I can bring that passion into my lectures and seminars. I’ve always been the first person to contribute when I have an opinion! I’d be interested to expose myself to authors I am not too familiar with and I’d be very interested in taking your extensive course on Charles Dickens to learn more about this literary great.

Outside of my high school work, I’ve found myself enjoying books written by authors such as Naomi wolf and Germaine Greer. Books like the Female Eunuch have inspired me to read more Feminist books, and have encouraged me to become further involved in local activism. I’ve volunteered for a number of women’s organizations, most recently I worked with women’s aid to help to fundraise for a domestic violence awareness event. I helped to research and write parts of a leaflet on domestic violence, which gave me a lot of confidence in my writing and made me feel good about contributing my abilities to an important cause. I’d like to build on this experience by helping to create some other fundraising events on campus, and potentially by joining the University Feminist society.

In addition to reading, I spend most of my time writing on my political blog. I write on a number of topics, but most commonly I write on Feminism as this is the subject I find most interesting. I’m currently planning to release an eBook in the near future called Myths about the Patriarchy. Throughout the course of writing this content, I’ve enjoyed communicating my opinions with my readership and would like to continue this for a career. A degree at US University would enable me to gain some solid academic credentials and enable me to pursue writing as a career. My passion for reading and writing has meant that becoming a full-time writer is the only thing I can imagine myself doing. Studying English Literature would be a good starting point to turn this lifelong dream into a reality.

Ever since I was young, I’ve always been singing along to the radio. Whether it’s a catchy pop song, or an alternative masterpiece, I just can’t help but find myself moving to the music. It was no surprise that when I first picked up the guitar at 11 years old, I couldn’t put it down. I loved the process of learning to play all these little tunes that I heard and hummed before. The process of physically playing music, lead me to appreciate music in a whole different way. As soon as I could, I rushed to start a band, and after around 6 months of playing I played my first concert. Truthfully, we weren’t very good, but I loved the feeling of playing music in front of other people, so much so that I decided I wanted to pursue performing music as a career.

Ever since then, I’ve been throwing myself at any gig I can find. My attitude to music has always been to learn by doing, and I’ll be sure to continue my passion for performing by becoming active in the campus music scene. On that note, I would definitely be interesting in becoming involved within the local area music scene as well. As a player, I started off on alternative music, but not I am much more motivated by the spontaneity of Jazz music. Every day when I wake up I go downstairs and have a quick jam along to a few backing tracks. To me, putting hours into my instrument isn’t work and I’m always thinking about music in one way or another. By Enrolling at Berklee School of Music, I’d be well placed to cope with the demands of staying on track with my learning. If I have a performance coming up I will not be shy of spending 8 hours a day practicing. I remember how proud I felt when I finally learnt how to play the advance piece Eugene’s Trick Bag by Steve Vai, and am prepared to throw myself at any more demanding performance pieces that come my way. It would be an honor study at an institution that’s had Steve Vai as Alumni.

Outside of my schoolwork, I’ve been very eager to learn all I can about the instrument and have been giving guitar lessons for the past two years. I have become very confident explaining the basic CAGED chord system, and teaching students the Major, Minor, Blues and Pentatonic scales. Not only has teaching improved my own knowledge of the instrument, it has also been incredibly rewarding. I have enjoyed helping students who have struggle with the basics to be able to play songs like Green day’s Wake Me Up When September Ends and Guns N’ Roses Sweet Child o’ Mine. I know that it is rare for professional musicians to sustain themselves on performing alone, so I’d love to be able to teach along side performing. A degree of Berklee school of music will be evidence of my ability to teach not only the practice of playing guitar, but the theory that goes behind it.

For a long time, I’ve known that perfoming music is what I want to pursue as a career and I can see that UC Berklee will give me everything I need to become an established part of the professional music scene. Not only will formalized study benefit the standard of my performance but it will also take my theoretical understanding to the next level. In order to fulfill my aspiration to be a professional musician, I can see no other institution that offers the shear brilliance of UC Berklee.

Ever since I read Frank Ryan’s book Virolution, I’ve been captivated by the idea of understanding what’s around me on a higher level. Ryan took the common ways that viruses were interpreted, such as natural evils and annoyances and turned them on their head. Ryan’s argument that viruses had a role in forcing evolution forward by encouraging animals to adapt was a completely new idea to me. The premise that we as humans evolve with viruses, presented viruses as somewhat useful, which was a completely new idea to me. After reading the book I became fascinated by the processes of life’s smallest organisms. I wanted to understand what they did, and how they were doing it. Virolution was my first insight into the shear variety and depth of the field of Biology. Outside of the narrow scope of the high school curriculum, there was a whole new world out there.

Since I read Ryan’s book by happenstance, I delved deeper into any similar books that I could get my hands on. Naturally I found myself reaching for Richard Dawkins The Selfish Gene before taking a look at Darwin’s classic The Origins of the Species. These books taught me that I was missing a lot of what was under my nose. I have since decided that I want to pursue biology as a career, and after my degree I will be enrolling to do a PHD. A degree from US University will provide me with a strong set of academic credentials. It’s very important to me, to be part of a committed and active research institution as this is what I want to pursue as a career. By going to an institution with such a commitment to cutting edge research, I will be well placed to make my transition to the academic world myself.

In terms of practical experience with Biology, I have been fortunate enough to complete a work placement at the Baker Laboratory in Washington. My placement as Baker helped me to develop my day-to-day understanding of Laboratory practices and what the working day of a Biologist is like. The staff at Baker Laboratory commented on my commitment to learning, my enthusiasm, and my initiative. I found that I learnt a lot during my short time there, so I can only imagine what I’d learn over years of working at such an institution. I would find nothing more fulfilling than being able to contribute to the academic community full-time.

Outside of my studies and my passion for biology, I’ve spent a lot of time volunteering at the local animal sanctuary. I enjoy helping out with the animals there and aiding the general conservation attempts of the charity. Generally, we tended to smaller animals like badgers and raccoons but sometimes we got larger animals to look after like deer, which have been injured out in the wild. For me, helping to look after a wounded deer and helping her return to the wild was one of the most rewarding experiences of my life. Naturally, I found it very refreshing to see your institutions commitment to ethical and sustainable research practices.

One day, I would like the opportunity to contribute to academic journals of the future so that I can influence generations of the future to go into the sciences. My work experience and my volunteering efforts have shown me that the study of the natural world is something very important to me, and although I haven’t narrowed down on a specific field of Biology yet, I am confident that I can find this out throughout the course of my degree.

Ever since I learnt about the Crusades in History at school, I’ve known History is the subject for me. Learning about how western Christendom ushered to defense of the holy land and occupied the surrounding areas seemed strangely reminiscent of western interventionism following the Iraq war. To me this was one of those places where History seemed to repeat itself. Since first becoming enamored with the Crusades my passion for History has steadily grown outwards. Today, I’m always expanding my knowledge of History wherever I can. Just recently, I’ve been getting to grips with Russia, reading Richard Pipes’ Russia Under the Old Regime.

As an individual, I’ve always been interested in the Leopold Von Ranke-esque perception of History, where the historian aims to understand history whilst leaving contemporary prejudices at the door. US University’s course on the Second World War, and the peri-centric approach mentioned within the course details, where students will study the lesser powers in World War II suggest that this is an institution committed to inclusion and diversity of history. I’ve always been fascinated with History in terms of hearing from groups/nations who aren’t the typical capitalist superpowers presented to us by mainline historical scholarship.

My interest in studying history comes both as a result of interest, and as a stepping-stone into a career in Journalism. A History degree would act as evidence of my ability to research and disseminate information into a concise and compelling format. Ever since high school I’ve wanted to pursue a career where I can engage with ideas. Indeed, I would be well place to communicate with others in lectures and seminars as I have read enough over time to become quite fluent at presenting information and arguing a point.

After completing a work experience placement at a local newspaper recently I have known that Journalism was the career for me. As part of my experience, I had the opportunity to shadow one of the local journalists, helping to source research for articles through a mixture of online and print based sources. It was my responsibility to ensure that what was written down was accurate and to organize this data so that it could be included within an article. I even got the chance to ghost write on a couple of smaller pieces. Personally, I found this experience to be incredibly rewarding, and with a History degree from US University, I’ll be well placed to enter into a career in Journalism.

Outside of my schoolwork, I’m always staying active, whether its playing basketball with friends or going to the gym, I’m always pushing myself. When I’m not at school or out moving about I’m at home reading. If I’m not holding a book I’ll be on YouTube watching political commentary or debates to unwind (well, most of the time!). I thrive off absorbing ideas from new books. My favorite book would have to be The Prince by Machiavelli. I found the way that Machiavelli eschews traditional morality in favor of tyrannical pragmatism to be very interesting and disturbing. Famously, Machiavelli suggests it is ‘better to be feared than loved’, and I find it interesting how his recommendation of ‘fear’ as a tool of rule would leave him admired by later dictators like Mussolini. I’d be very interested in learning more about Machiavelli and tackling his work as part of the University’s Renaissance module. Exposing myself to these unorthodox political ideas is part of what has made me want to go into political journalism, to engage with ideas that others have put out there, and to critique them.

Since I was a child, I’ve always been competitive. Whilst other kids were out playing football, I was in the boxing gym working hard. I’ve always enjoyed football, but for me there was a whole new level of pressure and competition in Boxing that you didn’t get by playing team sports. I’ve found it immensely rewarding to push myself to the limit. As I grew older at high school I began to look for an avenue that I could make a real career out of, and by chance I stumbled upon an old episode of the TV show Law and Order. I found the idea of being a lawyer and being judged on your performance to be incredibly interesting.

To me, being a lawyer meant working in a meritocratic environment where you are rewarded on your performance. I’ve always had the tenacity to hold strong under pressure, and have the innate ability to thrive in high-pressure environments. With my schoolwork, I’ve always done well because of my dedication to just putting my head down and working hard. At Harvard Law School, I’m going to be the one putting in the hours to get the grades I want. I’m comfortable with throwing myself into a routine, and ensuring that my reading gets done.

I’m driven to study at Harvard because it’s the most prolific law school in the world. Harvard Law School has become synonymous with the study of law across the world, and for good reason. As an elite academic institution, Harvard Law School has the capacity not just to forge careers, but also to forge illustrious careers. I am confident that I am of the character, ability, and intestinal fortitude to thrive in such an environment. For me this is an opportunity to stand out from my peers and to create the life that I want to live. A degree from Harvard Law School will place the keys of my future in law well within my own hands.

Recently, I completed a work experience placement shadowing a lawyer, and have had the opportunity to sit and observe a number of trials. I’ve become familiar with the day-to-day running’s of a law firm, and as part of the role I was responsible for assisting the Lawyer with his research and double-checking documents. I saw that being a Lawyer was a lot of work, but this did not deter me, as I’ve always been a hard worker. Whilst others have been finishing their school day and going home, I’ve been going straight to work at a bar. When others finish up their lectures for the day to go home, I’ll be the one getting work done at the library before starting a 6-hour shift. I’ve always been a firm believer that you get out of life what you put in, and I’m always putting in 100%. Amongst my studies and my work, I’ll definitely be checking out the boxing society, and with aim to compete later in my first year.

With my commitment to working hard, I will be well placed within the culture of Harvard Law School. Work as a Lawyer will be incredibly demanding and time consuming, and I intend to put myself through the paces throughout the duration of the degree so that I’ll be able to hit the ground running when I land my first role as a lawyer. Most importantly of all, I’m willing to fail in order to learn. If I don’t get the grade I want on an assignment, I’m not going to start to crumble under pressure, I’m going to take the feedback on the chin and get back in the library to get the grades I want.

While I like to read, play soccer, be in the outdoors, and hang out with my friends, my passion is music.  It started when as a 7 year olds and has blossomed into something I would have never expected.  I have learned how to work hard and about victory and defeat.  Music has led me on many adventures, helped me find my identity, and shaped who I am today.

One of my first significant experiences as a musician came in the sixth grade.  My school did not offer band classes until middle school, but by that age I had been studying a few years with a private instructor and was a member of a community youth orchestra.  When I arrived at school, I quickly discovered that I was one of the best musicians in my grade and was given the opportunity to join three bands:  the sixth grade band, the seventh grade band, and the jazz band (which was normally limited to seventh and eighth graders).

I reluctantly performed a short trumpet solo during our first performance before the student body.   I worked hard on the piece and it went well, but what I remember most was that when I walked down the halls after the concert other sixth graders congratulated me.  I did not know many of them, but they told me how “cool” it was that I played with the jazz band.  While it may sound vein, this experience allowed me at a young and impressionable age to embrace who I am and gave me self-confidence, pride, and a sense of identity.

That spring I also auditioned for two all-district bands with the best seventh and eighth graders in the county (even though I was only in sixth grade).  The experience did not go as well – I was nervous and did a terrible job.  I was devastated, but soon realized that if I truly wanted to be great I had to dedicate myself to working harder and learning to handle stress better.
I have drawn on these lessons many times in high school.  I joined the marching and jazz bands, and made multiple all-district and all-state bands.  In addition, when faced with peer pressure or when it would have been easy to question who I am, I was better able to be steadfast and grounded than many of my peers.

My greatest musical achievement happened at the end of my junior year when I participated in the National Youth Orchestra of the United States of America.  I stopped working afterschool my last two quarters and doubled my practice time to prepare for the audition.  I remembered what I learned going as far back as sixth grade and gave one of the best performances of my life.  I then spent a few weeks in New York with a group of students from around the country studying music with an impressive cast of professional musicians.  We worked ten to twelve hour days and learned to push our lungs to new levels.

On the last night before we left for a tour in Latin America, we had a concert at Carnegie Hall in New York City.  The venue was filed with our parents, a few political and sports celebrities, and many others dressed in their finest.  At the end of the concert, as we finished the last note, the entire crowd erupted in applause.  I looked into the eyes of my fellow musicians and we shared a moment of pride and accomplishment.   I knew in my heart that all my hard work had been worth it and this is what I was meant to do.

I was that “that” teenager who told his parents at the end of high school that he needed to “find himself” and who received a collective eye roll from every adult in a 5 mile radius.  I did not know who I was or what I wanted, but I knew I was not ready to go to college.  I also knew that I did not want to be one of those “spoiled rich kids” that sat home playing video games and partying on the weekends.  Instead, I took the $2000 I had saved up from my afterschool job; bought a backpack, tent, and sleeping bag; and had an adventure that has forever changed my life and prepared me to go to college.

I left the house with the goal of circling the globe over the next year, working along the way to make enough money to eat and travel to my next city.  I worked about a dozen jobs, from cleaning out horse stalls in Argentina to fast food in the Philippines.  The reality is that, up to that point, I had never really understood the value of money or had to work to survive.  I lived in Greece for two months working for a fisherman mending and cleaning his fishing nets.  At the end of the day, he would inspect my work and if it was satisfactory I would get paid – if it was not, I was not paid that day.  It did not take me long to figure out how to take pride in my work.

I faced dangers that I had never experienced at home.  In São Paulo, Brazil, one of my temporary travel companions was robbed at gunpoint while I was chased down the street.  In the same city, the children would not go to school during periods of heightened gang violence out of fear for their safety.  It was difficult to then be asked by those same kids about my school experiences and why I had chosen to leave home.

Most of all, I learned that most people are generally the same.  Regardless of region, economic class, skin color, religion, or gender most people are just trying to do the best they can to navigate their challenges with dignity and give their children more than they have.   Towards the end of my journey, I stayed a few weeks in France with a family friend.   We talked frequently about what I had seen and observed over the prior months, and I shared this hypothesis with the father.  To my surprise, he opened up to me about the struggles he faced raising his children.  While he did not to have to worry about whether his kids had enough food to eat, his concerns were just as sincere and real, and I saw in him much of what I had seen in others. While this may not be profound to some, it was for me particularly in light of the negativity and demonization that seems to dominate so much of the public discourse in the United States.

I did not walk away from my year-long adventure with a clear roadmap for my entire life.  I do not know for sure what I am going to major in or what will be my final career choose.   But I did gain perspective on what the world is really like and my place in it; I learned how to work hard and the dignity that comes from doing so; and I learned how lucky I truly am and the type of life I want to provide for my kids.

I am grateful for the experiences I had and am now better prepared to move forward into adulthood.   I hope to have the opportunity to start my next great adventure at your university.

My parent’s favorite television show is a political drama called The West Wing that that went off the air about 10 years ago.  Growing up, I frequently walked into a room to find them watching old episodes and, in one such episode, the President of the United States closed a discussion with a group of college students by counseling: “decisions are made by those who show up.”  The quote stuck with me, but it was not until recently that I came to understand what it meant.

I will be honest – I initially joined Key Club International, a service organization, because I thought it would look good on a college application.  As part of my membership, I was required to complete at least fifty hours of service.  I decided the easiest way to complete the requirement was to set up a regular volunteer project and so I agreed to work at the local soup kitchen every other Saturday morning.  For the first year, I went on my designated mornings, helped out, and went home, but I began to notice that other student volunteers frequently missed their allotted time and left the facility understaffed.

I could tell this really bothered the Director of the program and it took away from her ability to serve the soup kitchen’s clients.  Innocently, I mentioned to the Director that more students may show up on time if she sent them a reminder via text message.  She thought it was a good idea and asked if I would mind sending out the messages next week, and so I did.  The response was positive and more of the students arrived on time for their shifts.

Over the next few months, the Director continued to ask me questions about how best to engage student volunteers.   I helped her set up accounts on various social media platforms, create better internal volunteer tracking charts, and plan a presentation she could make at local schools to recruit volunteers and increase awareness.   The Director asked me to join her at one of the presentations and, while I was nervous, I enjoyed sharing my positive experiences with the other students.

At the end of my junior year, the Director was asked to make a presentation to the county Board of Supervisors about the student outreach program and what had made it so successful.   She brought me with her and asked that I give part of the presentation.  I received a very warm reception from the Board and, at the end, the Chairwoman pulled me aside and asked if I would join a county commission on hunger and poverty.  She explained that the Board was struggling to find new solutions to the growing issues facing underprivileged children in the county.  I was honored to accept and have since spent a few hours a month at the county offices working on the commission.  It has gone so well that both the Chairwoman and the Director offered to write me letters of recommendation to college.

The reality is that I am not more talented than my fellow students.  I do not have some great technical knowledge, I am not particularly outgoing, and I am not a great public speaker.  But I was willing to show up and help.  By doing so, what was meant to be a simple volunteer project two times a month developed into a great adventure where I have met many fantastic people, done things most teenagers never consider possible, and had lots of fun.

I look forward to taking what I have learned with me as I go to college.  I hope to have many opportunities to provide service and improve myself, and I am excited to see what adventures the next 4 years bring.

For my entire life, I have had the itch: the itch to understand.

As a kid I was obsessed with a universe I knew nothing about. In elementary school, my favorite book was an introduction to fulcrums for kids. Like the Pythagoreans who had marveled at the perfect ratios of musical notes, I was enamored with the mathematical symmetries of fulcrums. The book inflamed my itch but I had no means to scratch it.

I was raised a San Francisco Hippie by musicians and artists. I learned to sing the blues before I knew the words I used. Without guidance from any scientific role models, I never learned what it meant to do science, let alone differentiate science from science-fiction. As a kid, it was obvious to me a flying car was equally as plausible as a man on the moon. When my parents told me my design for a helium filled broomstick would not fly, they could not explain why, they just knew it wouldn’t. My curiosity went unrewarded and I learned to silence my scientific mind to avoid the torture of my inability to scratch the itch.

Then, in Sophomore year, I met Kikki. Before Kikki, “passion” was an intangible vocab term I had memorized. Ever since she lost her best friend to cancer in middle school, she had been using her pain to fuel her passion for fighting cancer. When you spoke to her about oncology, her eyes lit up, she bounced like a child, her voice raised an octave. She emanated raw, overwhelming passion.

I wanted it. I was enviously watching another person scratch an itch I couldn’t.

I was so desperate to feel the way Kikki did that I faked feeling passionate; AP Physics 1 with Mr. Prothro had sparked my old Pythagorean wonder in mathematics so I latched on to physics as my new passion and whenever I talked about it, I made my eyes light up, made myself bounce like a child, purposefully raised my voice an octave.

Slowly, my passion emerged from pretense and envy into reality.

Without prompting, my eyes would light up, my heart would swell, and my mind would clear. One night, I was so exhilarated to start that night's problem set that I jumped out of my seat. I forgot to sit back down. I spent that night bent over at my desk, occasionally straightening out, walking around and visualising problems in my head. Five whiteboards now cover my walls and every night, I do my homework standing up.

Once learning became my passion, my life changed. Old concepts gained new beauty, the blues became a powerful medium of expression. Mathematics became a language rather than a subject. I rocketed from the kid who cried in class while learning about negative numbers to one of two juniors in an 800-person class to skip directly into AP Physics C and AP Calculus BC. I founded Lowell Physics Club, which became one of the largest clubs in the school. Over the summer at Stanford, I earned perfect marks in Ordinary Differential Equations, Energy Resources, an Introduction to MATLAB, and an environmental seminar, all the while completing the Summer Environment and Water Studies Intensive. Now in my senior year, I am earning my AS in Mathematics and Physics at the City College of San Francisco.

As I enter college, the applicability of my field of physics offers me a broad array of high-impact careers. Given that by 2050, 17% of Bangladesh's land will be underwater displacing twenty million people, I have settled on energy resources engineering.

All of this is natural progression from one development - I learned to scratch my itch.

“And you thought you could paint,” whispered the indistinguishable mass of colors in front of me, which was meant to represent a window. I looked down at the paint-stained printed image that I held with my trembling hand and back again to the unsuccessful attempts I had made to capture it on the canvas. My eyes scanned the wet paint avidly, attempting to find a solution to a problem I didn’t, couldn’t, solve. The more I looked at it, the more my mind wandered, focusing on the imperfections and confusion that the task of creating my first oil painting caused. Thoughts dashed through my brain like bullets, creating a knot of insecurity so tight that all of the pressure seemed to accumulate until I couldn’t hold it any longer. The pressure exploded, followed by several fat tears that spurted from my eyes. “Why would you do something you’re clearly not good at?” yelled my thoughts. I dropped my paintbrush on the floor, the paint splattering around me along with my tears.

I had never encountered anything like the painting that lay in front of me. My little projects were generally characterized by the quick learning of new skills, after which I would easily succeed at achieving in the activity. Never had I struggled solving math problems, never had my words faltered while conjuring up a last minute essay. It was this previous success and my ability to learn things quickly that made this encounter with a challenge so difficult. When looking at an obstacle in the eyes, I was a coward. I was unable to face difficulty in the fear that I’d be unable to succeed. I turned around and walked away, the smell of wet paint fading along with the determination my eyes had once held.

The colors would remain alone for the next few weeks, calling to me from the corner of my bedroom where they lay, discarded. It was not until that cloudy Sunday afternoon, common during rainy season, when the voices would finally reach my ears and guide my hands back to the paintbrush. It would take, however, 3 weeks and the development of a new friendship.

I met Mirjana through an exchange programme between my school and a school hidden amongst the mountains of Panama, which aimed at providing a better education to teens from poor areas. She was pretty and soft-spoken, with white teeth and sparkling, brown eyes. She liked to read, and we hit it off right away. Her stay with us was filled with laughter and discussions about latin-american novelists, and it was amongst these that we grew to become the best of friends. Mirjana told me about her hobbies, her friends from back home, her dreams, but most of all, her fears.

We spent long afternoons in bed, the soft breeze outside creating twists in our hair as it crawled through the window and listened to our conversations, the rain’s silent messenger during April. Mirjana told me about her fear of not being able to provide for her family and her homesickness while being at boarding school. It was during these conversations about fear that I began to look back at my painting attempts. Fear, that little whisper on the back of my ear, the fear of failure, had stopped me in my tracks when I had encountered a setback.

Our conversations during these calm afternoons continued, and my thoughts about the fear of failure intensified. Why was failure so scary to me? Why was I afraid of something I had not yet encountered? These thoughts would reach a climax that cloudy Sunday afternoon, where my hands would find the paintbrush and dip it into the creamy mixture of oil paint. And although I did learn how to paint, my biggest achievement was learning how to push fear out of the way to let the water flow and the paint dance.

When I watched the Patriots and Falcons play in the Super Bowl in February of 2017, I had no idea that the next time I watched a football game I would be on the sidelines, right in the middle of all the action. However, that’s exactly what happened, and my experience as a football manager is not one that I will ever forget.

At the end of my junior year, the head football coach, Coach Cotter (who was also my AP Government teacher), asked me if I wanted to be a manager for the football team. He told me I would have to be at all the practices and games during the summer and throughout the school year. He made a compelling offer, but I turned him down because I didn't think I would have enough time during the summer with my classes, work, and vacation. One of my friends, however, took him up on his offer. In the middle of July, after hearing her talk about how much she enjoyed it, I asked her if she thought I would be able to join. After we spent a little bit talking about it, she asked if I wanted to go with her and see what it was like. I agreed, and I loved it. I asked Coach Cotter if he would mind if I joined, and I can still hear him saying, "Absolutely, the more the merrier!" in my head. The weeks of practice that followed, and then eventually the long Friday nights, proved to be an unforgettable experience.

The job of a football manager does not sound glamorous. Being at football practice for six hours every day during the summer and then three hours after school, surrounded by 47 sweaty football players and seven coaches who are constantly shouting is not how I planned to spend my summer and the fall of my senior year. But there was no way for me to know that this experience would teach me valuable lessons about life, regarding teamwork, hard work, and discipline.

In late July it was evident that some of the players were new and unsure of what to do. I watched as day after day the upperclassmen helped them learn their positions and become better players. This demonstration of teamwork impressed me, because instead of laughing at the younger players for not knowing what to do, they helped them become the best players they could be to make the team stronger. Once, three of our seniors got in trouble for some off field activities, and they had to sit out the first game, along with losing their helmet stickers that are given out for exceptional performances. I witnessed the effect that the consequences had on these players, and I heard one of our coaches after we lost the game tell them “Now you see how the consequences of your actions affected the entire team. Don't ever underestimate your importance to this team.” After that game, I saw the hard work that those boys put in to earn back their reputations and their helmet stickers. They taught me that even if I make mistakes, I will always learn from them no matter how much hard work it takes.

We managers go by many names: watergirls, team managers, hydration specialists. But none of these monikers can capture the rush of emotion I feel after a hard fought game, or the feeling of connectedness that comes every time we celebrate as a team after a victory, ringing our bell and blasting “Party in the USA.” My sense of school spirit has never been stronger. Throughout the summer, the three hours after school, and the seven hours I spend on game days with the players, I have learned lessons and developed relationships that I will never forget.

Piano Man plays on repeat in Used To Be’s Island Eatery, a high-volume bar and restaurant in the town of Mantoloking on the Jersey shore. Balding men and blonde women sway to the song as they sit on the wooden barstools, chatting and laughing about their lives.

From my hostess stand I can see it all. To my left is the restaurant portion of the building. It is dimly lit but there is enough light to see the customers’ expressions, from the time I seat them until their plates have been cleared. It’s fascinating to watch how much people change from the time they approach me at the stand, hungry and impatient, to when they are smiling and telling me to have a good night, plucking a mint from the silver bowl as they leave.

I’ve learned that the demeanors of the staff shape the mood of the restaurant. When the waitresses have come from the beach and have plans with their friends later that night, there is a sense of calmness and ease among the staff and the customers. On the other hand, when one waitress trudges in fifteen minutes late on a rainy afternoon and recites her endless list of the day’s unfortunate experiences, the entire mood drops. I’ve discovered that restaurants are all about putting on a happy face, even if you’re secretly envisioning hurling a rude customer's plate across the restaurant like a frisbee and watching ravioli spray across the room.

My dad has always told me to be positive, but I never really understood how truly meaningful that was until I started working as a host. I’ve learned that positivity and friendliness are crucial to making any situation more enjoyable, and especially in making stressful ones more bearable. So, even if I have eighteen reservations and a dozen takeout orders to handle, I plant a smile on my face and ask the elderly couple that walks in the door how they are doing. What I’ve discovered is that when they smile back at me and ask me about myself, it brightens my mood, and I end up having a simple and sweet conversation with complete strangers. Their kindness is uplifting, and I love hearing about a couple’s recent vacation, or talking and laughing with the father of a baby who just tried to eat a lemon.

I was anxious about starting my first job. However, I quickly found that hosting not only suited my strengths, but also taught me more about myself and how others behave in stressful environments. Hosting requires perception, observation and organization, qualities that play to my strengths. While the waitresses are distracted taking orders or bringing food, I’m the one who watches over the entire restaurant, making sure that tables are cleaned and little kids have paper and crayons. On the other hand, this job also taught me that sometimes I need to keep my mouth shut and deal with issues on my own, even if it means defusing an uncomfortable conversation with a customer who has had too much to drink. This response is generally counterintuitive to what I’ve been taught in school, which is to speak up and seek help from peers or teachers. In this business, one is often told to “figure it out yourself” or “just fix it”. Initially this was challenging, but I soon discovered that it taught me to have faith in myself and be more independent.

I absolutely loved this job. I discovered how much I enjoy working with and learning from other people. Hosting taught me the value of being totally engaged and fully present, which allowed me to commit myself to the people and environment around me. This job took me out of my comfort zone, but I have no doubt that what I learned will help me in every stage of my life, including when I go back next summer.

Each summer for the last eight years, I have attended a four-week residential summer camp on Orcas Island, first as a camper and more recently as a staff member. As a counselor-in- training last summer, my role shifted from one centred around my own enjoyment to one catering to the fulfilment of others. I welcomed this change of pace gladly, as the ability to positively impact the next generation of campers in a similar way to how my own counselors impacted mine thrilled me.

At first, I was unconvinced that I was being the role model I had envisaged of myself, as I was daunted by my new responsibility as staff. However, my uncertainty dissipated when one of the campers I had worked closely with in the sailing classes I taught wrote me a heartfelt letter towards the end of the session claiming that spending time with me had been one of the highlights of his summer. This small affirmation struck me deeply, and I was incentivised to continue putting all my energy into hopefully similarly affecting as many others as I could.

One of the most challenging parts of the summer was when I acted as an assistant counselor to a group of six 2nd-grade boys for a week, living with and supervising them for the whole time. I recall one particular moment when all six started yelling over the minor grievance of whose turn it was to take the dirty dishes back to the kitchen that meal. I tried diffusing the situation peacefully but, in the end, it required a firmer stance to get them to calm down. It was tough for me to take a harder line with them, but it was a valuable lesson that being assertive, yet still kind, is an effective method for future situations.

I cannot wait to apply for a full counselor position next summer, as each year I learn more from camp about what it is to be a compassionate leader, a convincing role model, and a team player.

My greatest talent is teaching. I love the opportunity to help others and seeing them develop and improve as a result of my input is always so rewarding.

My principle teaching outlet is as a diving coach. My favourite part about this job is that it is so dynamic, and each session is different. Some days the divers are in a great mood, dive impressively, and will jest with you nonstop which, being extroverted, fills me with energy and is a genuinely enjoyable evening. These sessions are so easy to coach as you can present yourself as a friend to the divers and deepen the trust that exists between you. However, other nights the kids are tired and unenthusiastic and coaching becomes far more challenging. I have to be stricter with them while simultaneously finding ways to motivate them, such as introducing little competitions or rewards for training hard. Over time, I have gotten much more confident at adjusting my coaching attitude towards the signals I pick up from the divers and it has made my job significantly easier.

This year, I have taken on the additional responsibility of leading the Learn to Dive squad, the largest group of divers at my club. At first, it was tough for me to adjust to my new role as it entailed more work with other coaches, helping them to develop their own coaching ability and monitoring the progression of their divers, as well as with kids of my own. However, I have grown to love this new element of my job, despite the challenge of instructing coaches older than myself, as it has forced me to develop my teaching ability in new ways. I have had to analyse my own teaching methods in order to explain them to other coaches and this both helped them to understand how to improve, but also allowed me to refine and develop how I coach my own divers.

Teaching is such an important part of my life because it allows me to learn and increase my own knowledge while making a positive impact on others.

While reading Tolkien's The Silmarillion, I was struck by the elegance of the Elvish script he included. Upon further research, I discovered that he had created an entire language – Quenya – to accompany the Lord of the Rings trilogy. The idea that a language could be crafted and cultivated like a piece of art was both illuminating and inspiring to me. I had heard of Esperanto previously, but I believe Tolkien wasn’t trying to change the world with his creation. His goal was simply to create a language for the pleasure of it, and to enrich his storytelling and worldbuilding.

The revelation that language could be more than just a tool for communication triggered a love for linguistics that persists to this day. I voraciously tore through reference grammars and college textbooks alike, including An Introduction to Historical Linguistics by Lyle Campbell.

I even tried to emulate Tolkien and create a language of my own. Whether at school taking classes in Spanish, French, Italian, Latin, and Ancient Greek, or at home studying the phonology of Brazilian Portuguese on my own, languages excited and motivated me to learn more. I was awarded the Arthur Beatty award for outstanding linguist in the year as a result of my dedication to the language program at school.

Watching Game of Thrones reintroduced me to conlanging in the form of Dothraki and rekindled my interest, prompting me to write my IB extended essay on the historical etymology of Spanish. It was a challenging project, but I loved every minute of my research. While my friends were lamenting their boredom at poring over endless journals on topics they didn’t enjoy, I was studying a subject for which I am truly passionate. I hope to continue my study of language in university, and one of my goals in life is to be trilingual. I have no doubt that languages will continue to inspire me throughout life, and I hope to be able to share some of this passion with others along the way.

Throughout my time at school, I have tried to share my passions and interests with others in various ways.

With the help of a friend, I reinvigorated and reinvented the school linguistics society, transforming it from a dull discussion of past exam questions to a seminar-style session where I have presented and analysed various interesting aspects of language. We have covered topics ranging from phonetics to historical sound change, and it has attracted a loyal troop of linguists who relish the weekly meetings almost as much as I do.

I have also channelled my passion for teaching into volunteering as a Spanish teacher at another local elementary school. Leading a class of thirty students can be a challenge, mainly as that many students are often hard to control. Nevertheless, I have planned and carried out lessons there each week for the last three years and have learnt a lot from it. I have found that as my confidence has grown, so the students have started to listen to and respect me more. They gain more from the lessons, as is evident from their progress at the end of each semester, and my enjoyment and fulfilment has risen. I am glad to have had a positive impact on their learning, and that I have been able to teach a subject that genuinely interests me.

Finally, I was appointed as a school prefect for senior year. In this role, I have been involved with a number of charity initiatives, such as organising bake sales and sponsored sporting events to raise money for the Make a Wish foundation, as well as various pastoral activities such as mentoring incoming freshman and guiding prospective parents around the campus. I love being a prefect as it allows me to give something back to the school that has been a huge part of my life for the last several years. I hope my legacy is that students feel more comfortable and confident in the school environment, and that they are inspired to become leaders as I have been to give back to the community in turn.

Seconds after our teacher announced our project groups heard the familiar, pitchy voice of the most irritating person in the class yell my name. Just like my worst nightmare, I had been put in a group to work with Eva; the annoying girl who had a weird obsession with horses. At that moment, I knew that it was going to be the longest project of my life.

Eva was extremely difficult to work with; she would always interrupt me, stubbornly stuck to what she wanted, and did not listen to a thing I said. Two weeks of tension and no progress flew by until one day during class, Eva went on another ramble about her horses.

Although I wasn't ready to hear her talk about horses again, I let her continue. What was another rant about horses turned into a conversation about the mental disorders Eva faced and how she relied on horse riding as therapy. After that conversation, our progress took a complete 180. I was eager to learn more, and we finished the project with more purpose and meaning. My perspective changed entirely.

I was moved by Eva’s passion for horse riding and encouraged her to start a club on campus where she could share her passion with others. Beyond this project, I helped Eva defend her riding center during city council meetings because it was on the verge of being shut down. In exchange, working with Eva taught me how to be more open-minded, more patient, more understanding; values of which I personally lacked my entire life. ​I began to cooperate with people with a more accepting and considerate mentality, understanding that people work in different ways.

I’m glad I chose to work through the project with Eva because I grew as a leader in a way that I would have never expected. I know I could have easily done the project by myself, but instead, I worked through our disagreements and bickering. Sharing this experience with Eva unearthed my ability to lead using patience and understanding, which are now essential assets to my leadership capabilities.

I was thirteen sitting in my eighth grade geometry class, when I first heard of Fermat’s Last Theorem. We were discussing Pythagorean triples, whole number solutions to the Pythagorean Theorem, and conversation arose about the possibility of solving for exponents larger than two. What about three, four, or five? Eventually, this led to the teacher saying, “This is called Fermat’s Last Theorem. You won’t learn about it until you are much older.” With a dismissal like that, I naturally spent the whole night researching it instead of reading A Separate Peace for English. My fascination for this theorem was two-fold. The theorem is a seemingly simple concept, while on the other hand, it is notorious for being one of the most difficult proofs in all of mathematics. Fermat, himself, claimed he knew how to prove it, but promptly died leaving no evidence to back up his assertion. For over three and a half centuries, mathematicians were stumped by a seemingly impossible problem. Until it wasn’t.

Fermat’s Last Theorem was the impossible math proof, but overtime, collective mathematical knowledge grew. In 1993, British mathematician Andrew Wiles combined others’ theorems and conjectures to show that Fermat’s Last Theorem was a special case of semi-elliptical curves and that the theorem was a modular form. As a result, Fermat’s Last Theorem was proven to be correct. Consequently, once the mathematical community reviewed Wiles’ proof, it was widely agreed that Fermat could not have proven the theorem, because the general mathematical understanding in 1637 was not developed enough yet. Though the story of its eventual solution is exhilarating, to me, this episode underscores a more important lesson that is as true in science and engineering as it is in mathematics: it is not through individual genius, but collective effort and exploration that impossible problems become solvable.

Impossibilities surround us in the world. Here’s my impossibility—developing a solution to the global management of heart disease. Every year, millions die of cardiovascular complications, but nobody has a large-scale solution. My father’s death opened my eyes to the limited treatment options for cardiovascular disease, in that medicine can diagnose the disease, but current preventative measures are inefficient, as it is still the leading cause of death in America. Like Fermat’s Last Theorem, however, this problem does not have to remain unsolvable. Biomedical engineering applications enable us to foresee biological and physiological phenomena, and conceive system-oriented solutions to problems that have previously been treated symptomatically. I aspire to find new ways to track the growth of arterial plaque and blood clots throughout the body to better maintain blood flow, reducing, maybe someday eliminating, heart attacks, cardiac arrests, and strokes.

I see Cornell as my next step towards accomplishing this aspiration. My brother, Matt, went to Cornell Engineering for his B.S. (2006) and M.S. (2007), and his accomplishments are what initially drew me to the College of Engineering. He was a member of the DARPA Robotics team that built an autonomous vehicle. Cornell’s theoretical approach to systems allowed him to find new ways of visualizing the world when solving problems. Although my brother and I have differing interests, I see through him how a Cornell education fosters a mindset not just to improve the status quo, but to reimagine it.

Cornell researchers are already pioneering the future of cardiovascular engineering, where professors and students are researching “heart-assist technology” to discover better solutions to pediatric heart problems. That project is already seeking answers to many of the questions that motivate me, and I’m excited about the prospect of joining the effort. The college’s theoretical approach combined with its project teams offers a way for students like me to not just learn how to build things, but to understand the conceptual principles underlying each problem. With this two-pronged method, Cornell Engineering will allow me to solve my personal Fermat’s Last Theorem of developing better methods to combat heart disease.

Since seventh grade, I’ve been obsessed with making others smile. That year was tough on my 12-year-old, bewildered self. It was the first time I’d struggled through anything major in my life. Someone important in my life passed away. Several relationships were beaten up and broken down. My once-straight-A grades took a turn for the worse as the magnet school experience bore down upon me. And ever since I was forced to be that one kid who cried through lunch with her head down on the table, I decided to make sure nobody else would have to be that kid.

I’ve tried everything to hear someone’s laugh, from biting sarcasm to the pain of a bad pun. But when I think about when my friends and I are laughing the most, it’s all together, in a call at midnight. We’re playing computer games and listening to silly music and laughing at the expense of each other as we die at the hands of the enemy team in the most ridiculous ways.

I started playing League of Legends late last year. It was a way for me to feel strong and unstoppable when I felt powerless in reality. The gameplay was what initially hooked me, but everything else about the game was equally, if not more, fascinating. The design of the maps, champions, and skins. The precise animations and detail in every interaction. The engrossing theme songs and background music, especially ones like Aurelion Sol’s intro (highly recommend, by the way; it’s a beautifully written, insistent orchestral piece). The concept of worldbuilding and forever expanding upon the backstories of over a hundred characters and their universe. The way gaming brings all sorts of people together and lets them really laugh.

I once read a throwback article, called “Total Recall, or: That Time We Disabled Ranked,” that was written by product managers, designers, and producers. It covered an intensive bug that forced the company to work nearly 28 hours straight in order to restore the game and discussed the processes behind bugfixing. It was this article that truly incensed my interest in game design.

When reading about the majors and programs that Cornell provides, I felt a rare yet very real spark of excitement for college and my future. I’d heard of the notoriety of the Computer Science major at Cornell, but the option to follow the major within the School of Arts and Sciences eased my mind. As a right-brained student, I’ve always felt the struggle to succeed academically, especially within maths and sciences, while still pursuing my artistic interests. The BA CS major gives the ability to major in what I want to do while also getting exposure to a larger breadth of courses in other schools. I believe that Cornell will be able to reconcile my passions and style of learning by providing an environment in which I can thrive.

But what caught my eye the most was the specific game design minor that I could pursue alongside a major in computer science. It seems pretty unique to the school and is exactly what I’ve been wanting from a prospective school. Through this route, I’d be able to further my current understanding of programming and learn how to apply this to the world of design and animation. I’d be worlds closer to not only bringing my ideas to life, but also bringing the same happiness, excitement, and immersion that I feel to other gamers like me.

Gaming is what brings a smile to my face, as it does to millions of other people around the globe. I want my efforts to inspire happiness and infectious laughter to reach the world by doing what I love. And now, it truly feels as though Cornell has given me a real chance at being able to make someone smile by doing what they love.

When I first started seriously thinking about college during sophomore year, I didn’t want to go anywhere outside of Ohio. I thought I would be too far away from home. But the more mail I received from different colleges, the more I realized that some of my best opportunities were going to come from outside of my comfort zone, from outside of Ohio. One pamphlet from the University of Pennsylvania in particular caught my eye, and although I was a bit skeptical at first, as I did my research I realized that the University of Pennsylvania is a top tier university that holds many unique opportunities for its students.

One of the first things I noticed when I began to research Penn was their emphasis on interdisciplinary studies. This appealed to me because I have never been interested in only one subject. The fact that a third of my classes would be taken outside of the Wharton School tells me that I will be able to explore a variety of classes in virtually any subject. For example, although I do not want to major in it, I have always been interested in computer coding. Hopefully I will able able to take some introductory level computer programming or coding classes at Penn even though it is not directly related to finance, my potential concentration.

I am also excited about the availability of foreign languages at the University of Pennsylvania. I started learning French in eighth grade, and since my school only offers four years of French, I wasn’t able to take it my senior year, and I really miss it. I also started learning Portuguese during high school because I want to travel to Brazil one day. I want to continue learning both of these languages at the University of Pennsylvania. I am very excited about the opportunities that the emphasis on interdisciplinary studies will give me at Penn.

Another aspect of Penn that I found fascinating was their different programs regarding political science. At one point, I wanted to major in political science. But when I took an Introduction to Global Politics class at the Ohio State University during the summer before my senior year, I didn’t know if I could honestly see myself studying that for four years. However, during my time researching political science at Penn, I found out about an amazing program that I could participate in: Penn in Washington. Political science is currently my second choice major, and if I decide that’s what I want to major in, it would be with a concentration in American Politics, so the Penn in Washington program would be perfect for me to find an internship and learn about how the different parts of government work together in the heart of America’s government. However, if I choose not to major in political science, I would still be interested in the American Public Policy minor, which is offered through the political science department in the College of Arts and Sciences and the Wharton School, which is where I will possibly be pursuing a degree in finance. Penn seems to match perfectly with what I want to study in college.

I am really excited for the opportunities that the University of Pennsylvania will give me. From the interdisciplinary studies to the foreign languages and political science programs, I will have plenty of chances to explore my diverse interests here at the University of Pennsylvania.

My name is Eoin Hourihane and my entire life, no one has ever pronounced my name correctly. My genealogy is Irish and my name is spelled this way because every male in the Hourihane family, for the past seven generations, has been named John. Since my older brother's name is John, my dad decided to honor his heritage, which gives me my dual citizenship, and name me the old Gaelic for John: Eoin.

I am the youngest of six which brings with it the never-ending comparisons, teasing, and constant bickering; add to that being small for my age until the age of twelve, and you can imagine my household. We have all been raised to be independent, to love nature (except Princess Ali), and to work our hardest at everything we do.

I have always loved math, playing hockey (ice or floor), matzah ball soup, the Beatles and Queen. As a kid, I was into Percy Jackson and a series of books with titles that all ended in “-ology,” the churros at the hockey rink in Jamestown, Bang party snaps, t-shirts by Tobuscus, and my two stuffed cats - one with a mortarboard, and the other with a Star of David on its front left paw. I have dreamt of being a biomedical engineer and creating a glass eye that can see, knowing the intricacies of the human body and its responses to environmental and internal stimuli, and performing surgery on the brain.

I have celebrated Chanukah and Christmas, honoring my Jewish mother and my Catholic father, but not truly affiliating with either. I am a liberal thinker who follows current events closely, and I am eager to explore the world outside of Buffalo, NY, participate in an academic environment that will challenge me, and live among a community of learners.

Filled with activity around the clock. A place to come home to.

Loving.

Trying to get past locked doors (literal and metaphorical).

Offering intellectual freedom and curiosity, without forcing specialization. Accommodating students who are unwilling to wait to make a difference. Willing to look critically at itself.

Socially conscious and politically active.

Firey.

Never taking its eye off the national or global stage.

Buzzing with so much life it flows beyond the campus into the outside world.

So much life that sometimes it intimidates, that it yearns for more hours in the day. With too many options to choose from, Too much to do in four years.

Filled with clever eyes that see new ideas in the lessons of history.

Diverse.

Diverse of origin, of culture, of opinion, of religion, of personality, Diverse like an international center of thought and ideas and passions. An urban wonderland.

Supporting of extraordinary ambitions.

Studying computer science gives me the opportunity to be in a field that evolves so quickly I can always be on the forefront and do cutting-edge work. This summer at an ad-tech company, I moved the data science team’s analysis programs to a novel cluster-computing engine (Kubernetes), which can manage and distribute tasks across thousands of computers at once. Kubernetes is so new that barely any information has circulated about it. Because of this novelty, I was able to publish the first existing documentation of a data science pipeline in Kubernetes.

Computer science can also automate the manual drudgery of life. For example: to manage my clubs, I’ve written a program that checks for emails from members with excuses for missing meetings and automatically logs their absences.

Since computers have become the platform for every science, coding allows me to contribute to numerous fields. When I started at Einstein College of Medicine last year, I knew nothing about computational biology. Our project showed me that basic programming was all I needed to find fascinating results in the mostly unstudied mountains of genomic data.

As a person, I’m drawn to seemingly impossible challenges, in particular, the quest to teach machines and create mechanical consciousness. When I started taking online courses in AI, I became fascinated by the gradient descent method in machine learning. The method casts complex input data (e.g. photos) as thousand-dimensional surfaces and attempts to descend to the lowest points (minima) of those surfaces. It works best on data with underlying patterns, like pictures of human faces. This indicates that, in some way, the very nature of what a ‘face’ is, what unique structure is shared by nearly all faces, is found in the minima that AI models descend towards. My dream is to do foundational artificial intelligence research.

Everywhere I looked, I saw a sea of white coats and scrubs; there was constant beeping of the heart monitors, and the smell of disinfectant was strong.

There I stood - a diminutive, awkward high school kid - lacking in experience and confidence, ready to begin volunteering at Vidant Medical Center. Perhaps the very same qualities that made me nervous were what put patients at ease. Many patients, especially younger ones who were uncomfortable speaking with medical professionals, seemed much more comfortable in my presence. I have learned this quality is how I have been able to make a difference - by connecting with many of the younger patients who were nervous just like me. I’ll always remember the two eight-year-old brothers who were waiting as their father got an MRI.

In some ways, they were also like me - they loved sports, and had an interest in math and science. As they were waiting, we talked about everything, from who they thought would win the NBA championship title to me giving them tips on how to remember their multiplication tables. This interaction put them at ease and kept them from becoming restless.

Every time I step into the hospital, I strive to connect with people. I find that I am able to make a difference not strictly due to my tasks of escorting and discharging patients but because of connection and rapport that I establish with them.

My initial nervousness about whether or not I would be able to assist sick and injured patients soon gave way to relief and gratification as I learned that I was indeed able to help them, by bringing a smile to those I escort, discharge, or deliver meals . I’ve met people I might never have met otherwise, and we’ve shared our thoughts and talked about our experiences. I have come to look forward to their company, who, despite their conditions, are still able to smile every day and enjoy engaging in conversation with me - and vice versa.

Even when volunteering in areas of the hospital where I’m not in contact with patients as often, such as doing food preparation, I always make sure to visit the patients I escort after my shift, to talk to them and uplift their spirits. Volunteering at a hospital reminds me every day how fortunate I am to be in good health and of the rewards of helping those who aren’t. While my job as a volunteer at the hospital may not result in the discovery of a cure for cancer, I am happy to have had an opportunity to contribute to improving the experiences of the children and young adults coping with their hospital stays.

As a child who hid behind her parents and never uttered a word whenever strangers were near, I was no stranger to people deeming me shy. As I got older, however, I found my voice more comfortably through music, through art, and through writing.

Playing Mozart’s Violin Concerto in the Kennedy Center, for instance, unleashed a swell of emotions through the intricate art of storytelling with my violin. I was drawn to writing stories and sharing ideas with my peers, starting my editor career in fifth grade. Five years later, I co-founded my high school’s literary magazine, Muses, which provides a platform for all voices while fostering connections among students.

I was twelve years old when a HTML class through John Hopkins University’s Center for Talented Youth program introduced me to a modern language of communication: computers and the Internet. Falling in love with coding and website design, I utilized my newfound knowledge to design a website for my National History Day project, which won the school competition. In high school, I joined programming club, took the rigorous computer science classes, and designed Muses’ website. This year, I created a conceptual online boutique store, which won first place in Maryland Future Business Leader Association’s E-business competitive event.

In the summer of 2016, I interned in a NCI melanoma research lab. This experience completed changed how I viewed the importance of technology to modern communication. We had obtained genotypes from thousands of melanoma patients and controls, but a new question arose: how could we extract the useful information from a massive data file, akin to finding a needle in a haystack? Under the guidance of a bioinformatician, I performed an association test between melanoma associated variants and survival outcome to identify the risk loci that might affect patient survival.

Catering to the needs of the scientists, I wrote an app by R code that organizes and manages melanoma genotype information; extracting the information of a particular genotype and its association with melanoma was now a couple clicks away. From this work, I learned how to translate large data into solutions, while using the correct data format and data structure. I realized that modern technology not only helps us communicate more efficiently, but also provides a system upon which we can solve global problems.

With a strong background in computer science and communications, I hope to incorporate both into a future career of building data systems, conducting research, and consulting for organizations that serve underrepresented citizens.

One project I want to tackle is the modification of social media algorithms so that media created by minorities and/or for minorities will appear on users’ radars. The algorithm would analyze the user’s demographics and deliver news relevant to those traits, such as discoveries about Asian health issues showing up on Asian users’ feeds. Carnegie Mellon’s encouragement of interdisciplinary studies under the Information Systems major would allow me to accomplish this and so much more. As someone who attacks calculus and creative writing with equal enthusiasm, IS’ objective of providing students with a broad background in the humanities and sciences is very appealing. As someone who learned to work as a team in a research lab, CMU’s emphasis on collaboration and student innovation would push me to further improve my teamwork and problem-solving skills.

In particular, I hope to take advantage of CMU’s Technology Consulting in the Global Community program, receiving guidance from both CMU’s renowned faculty and international technology experts. To that end, the Social and Decision Sciences major, my second choice, would also prepare me to utilize similar decision-making and analysis skills to solve social problems.

We live in a world where communication through technology connects communities across the globe, more so than ever before. The future of exploration and innovation requires us to develop efficient ways of communication - we need a combination of scientific expertise and knowledge grounded in the humanities to accurately convey ideas, solve problems and make the planet a better home for us all. An education at Carnegie Mellon would propel me in this endeavor.

Living in a suburb my whole life, I've always felt as if I lived in a two-dimensional plane. I can go left, right, forward, and backward.

In a suburb, however, it is nearly impossible to get any meaningful altitude. Upon visiting New York City during the summer before my senior year, however, I found myself gazing up at the skyscrapers soaring high above me. I've always loved the views mountains and buildings; both from above and below. I also have spent time studying Mandarin, and Shanghai would offer a unique opportunity to further my linguistic studies while engaging in cultural immersion.

Beyond settings, NYU has the capacity and the resources available for me to engage in research in quantum computation. Playing video games got me into math and science beyond just playing with my calculator as a baby. There were practical applications of the numbers, and I wanted to understand how it all worked in order to get the best equipment and maximize ammo efficiency. I would watch "Mythbusters" and try to come up with my own hypothesis and see if it matched their conclusion.

In 8th grade, I figured out that I loved science along with math, but I didn't exactly know what science I loved. At the time I was in "physical science" and I did enjoy the class a lot, but I always thought of physics as "speed distance time" triangles which were no fun at all. I was convinced to take AP Physics in my junior year with my friends, and I loved it. It was almost every week we would learn something that completely altered my perception of the universe.

Once I learned about quantum physics and how it basically destroys our understanding of everything, I knew I wanted to pursue it further, and be at the forefront of quantum research.

At NYU, not only can I take courses to learn about the subject, but I can also participate in research through the "Center for Quantum Phenomena". Taking advanced courses and conducting research in a new setting, such as New York or Shanghai, can offer me a new perspective and a breath of fresh air. Conversely, I can help over NYU a new perspective on critical thinking and problem-solving. I chose to apply to NYU because NYU is fit for me, and I am fit for NYU.

Inside every bedroom is the Swiss Army knife of the sleeping world: blankets. You can take them with you anywhere and they always come in handy. My blankets are dark blue with square tribal patterns, knitted from the finest pima cotton by Peruvian artisans. I fluff them up for a soft snuggle, throw them over myself to deter the monsters under the bed, or use them as a ShamWow for tears. Yet they also helped me overcome the biggest obstacle—the moving target— in my life.

I’ve moved within and between countries ten times. I’ve changed schools so often that I’ve never been in a classroom for more than two years. I have felt loneliness and isolation, while my classmates had playdates and tea parties in a language I struggled to speak. Nothing was mine, not in school where local kids decorated their lockers, not in our rented house where everything belonged to the landlord, and not in the bedroom I slept in, where furniture and wall colors constantly switched from cream to light tan to stale beige.

The only thing that followed me from house to house were my two blankets.

As I started middle school, I began to resent moving. I took my anger out on my parents, despising them for ripping me away from newly made friends, the eighth-grade boyfriend who held my hand and gifted me Godiva chocolates, and the bedroom overlooking the Via Paloma, whose bare, white walls and street noises were beginning to feel familiar. I had no safe space or anchor to rely on when new cultures and languages overwhelmed me.

As I finished middle school, my dark blue blankets were brimming with tears of anger and frustration. One night I rolled myself up into a pitiful cocoon of ill-thoughts and sadness, closed my eyes, and inhaled deeply. The scent of clean cotton swirled inside my lungs, relaxing me. Memories morphed: The spacious apartment in the Andes mountains of Venezuela, the cozy cabin in the hills of Peru, and the lush single story homes in Palm Beach and Miami. Each stop carried its own memories like a distinctive aroma. I remembered the first hike along the Andean mountains in Caracas, sliding down the sand dunes in Lima, and savoring deep fried Oreos at the South Florida Fair. A nostalgic smile formed on my face as I continued to remember.

In retrospect, moving was my passport to exciting new ideas, tastes, and hobbies. I lived through vastly different cultures, and over the course of my country-hopping journey, I blended them to create a unique lifestyle of arroz con pollo, salsa, and Costco bulk shopping. I was exposed to new angles on belief and opinions, which opened my eyes to the diverse perspectives of the world. Changes of place, language and altitude have gifted me with an open-minded and thoughtful nature.

My blankets have followed me to every new home, to every new bedroom. They were my emotional anchors when I felt adrift, they were my safe harbors. They reminded me that it’s not important to own everything around you to feel in control of your own life. It’s okay for things to change, as long as you hang on to your values. The battle between bare white and dark blue has shaped me into a person that can accept and adapt to unfamiliar situations.

I’ll haul my weathered blankets to new adventures and apartments, hopefully to the foothills of the San Gabriel Mountains and the gritty streets of East LA. Wherever I go, I can count on them to wrap me in their familiar arms, making the undiscovered feel like home.

I’m sitting backstage at my first international piano competition, anxiously awaiting my turn to perform. Unconsciously, I massage my right wrist, still recovering from a recent injury. The young man beside me feels my nervousness and starts a conversation.

As we whisper, I notice him rub his hands together uncomfortably. “What’s wrong?” I ask, quickly leaving my own wrist alone. He suppresses a nervous laugh, then quietly details the long and unsuccessful surgery that shattered his dream of becoming a professional musician. His hands were permanently damaged.

“Alessandra Fang,” the judges call. I stand up, walk to the main stage and look back to see him encourage me with a stiff, crooked thumbs-up. As my fingers dance on the keys, I observe the fragile muscles and ligaments under my skin.

I realize in that moment that it is not in a massive concert hall where I wanted to change people’s lives, but on a smaller stage: an operating room. As an artist who has had her share of painful, music-related injuries, my goal is to become a musician’s physician, and blend my greatest two passions so that I might bring relief to those around me, while understanding their musical and anatomical plight.

I wish to pursue both Biology and Music programs at Pomona College. I want to become a hand surgeon while still developing my artistry on the piano. After all, surgery also has its own cadence, complexity and composition.

State University and I possess a common vision. I, like State University, constantly work to explore the limits of nature by exceeding expectations. Long an amateur scientist, it was this drive that brought me to the University of Texas for its Student Science Training Program in 2013. Up to that point science had been my private past time, one I had yet to explore on anyone else’s terms. My time at UT, however, changed that. Participating for the first time in a full-length research experiment at that level, I felt more alive, more engaged, than I ever had before. Learning the complex dynamics between electromagnetic induction and optics in an attempt to solve one of the holy grails of physics, gravitational-waves, I could not have been more pleased. Thus vindicated, my desire to further formalize my love of science brings me to State University. Thanks to this experience, I know now better than ever that State University is my future, because through it I seek another, permanent, opportunity to follow my passion for science and engineering.

In addition to just science, I am drawn to State University for other reasons. I strive to work with the diverse group of people that State University wholeheartedly accommodates – and who also share my mindset. They, like me, are there because State University respects the value of diversity. I know from personal experience that in order to achieve the trust, honesty, and success that State University values, new people are needed to create a respectful environment for these values. I feel that my background as an American Sikh will provide an innovative perspective in the university’s search for knowledge while helping it to develop a basis for future success. And that, truly, is the greatest success I can imagine.

This emphasis on diversity can also be found in the variety of specialized departments found at State University. On top of its growing cultural and ethnic diversity, State University is becoming a master at creating a niche for every student. However, this does not isolate students by forcing them to work with only those individuals who follow their specific discipline. Instead, it is the seamless interaction between facilities that allows each department, from engineering to programming, to create a real learning environment that profoundly mimics the real world. Thus, State University is not just the perfect place for me, it is the only place for me. Indeed, having the intellectual keenness to absorb every ounce of knowledge presented through my time in the IB program, I know that I can contribute to State University as it continues to cultivate a scholarly climate that encourages intellectual curiosity.

At the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at State University, I will be able to do just that. In a department where education and research are intermixed, I can continue to follow the path that towards scientific excellence. Long-mesmerized by hobbies like my work with the FIRST Robotics team, I believe State University would be the best choice to continue to nurture my love for electrical and computer engineering. I have only scratched the surface in this ever evolving field but know that the technological potential is limitless. Likewise, I feel that my time at State University would make my potential similarly limitless.

For as long as I can remember, I have dreamed of science. Where others see the engineering, experimentation, and presentation of science as a chore, I only see excitement. Even as a child I constantly sought it out, first on television with Bill Nye and The Mythbusters, then later in person in every museum exhibit I could find. Science in all its forms fascinated me, but science projects in particular were a category all to themselves. To me, science projects were a special joy that only grew with time. In fact, it was this continued fascination for hands-on science that brought me years later to the sauna that is the University of Alabama in mid-June. Participating in the Student Science Training Program and working in their lab made me feel like a kid in a candy store. Just the thought of participating in a project at this level of scientific rigor made me forget that this was supposed to be my summer break and I spent the first day eagerly examining every piece of equipment.

Even at first, when the whole research group sat there doing rote calculations and others felt like they were staring down the barrel of defeated purpose, I remained enthusiastic. Time and time again I reminded myself of that famous phrase "great effort leads to great rewards," and sure enough, soon my aspirations began to be met. This shift in attitude also coincided with a shift in location: from the computer desk to the laser lab. It was finally time to get my hands dirty.

Now things began to get really interesting. During the experimentation phase of the project, I spent the majority of my waking hours in the lab – and I enjoyed every minute of it. From debriefing with my coordinator in the morning to checking and rechecking results well into the afternoon, I was on cloud nine all day, every day. I even loved the electric feeling of anxiety as I waited for the results. Most of all, though, I loved the pursuit of science itself. Before I knew it, I was well into the seventh week and had completed my first long-term research experiment.

In the end, although the days were long and hard, my work that summer filled me with pride. That pride has confirmed and reinvigorated my love for science. I felt more alive, more engaged, in that lab than I have anywhere else, and I am committed to returning. I have always dreamed of science but since that summer, since my experiment, I have dreamed only of the future. To me, medical science is the future and through it I seek another, permanent, opportunity to follow my passion. After all, to follow your passion is, literally, a dream come true.

The winter of my seventh grade year, my alcoholic mother entered a psychiatric unit for an attempted suicide. Mom survived, but I would never forget visiting her at the ward or the complete confusion I felt about her attempt to end her life. Today I realize that this experience greatly influenced my professional ambition as well as my personal identity. While early on my professional ambitions were aimed towards the mental health field, later experiences have redirected me towards a career in academia.

I come from a small, economically depressed town in Northern Wisconson. Many people in this former mining town do not graduate high school and for them college is an idealistic concept, not a reality. Neither of my parents attended college. Feelings of being trapped in a stagnant environment permeated my mind, and yet I knew I had to graduate high school; I had to get out. Although most of my friends and family did not understand my ambitions, I knew I wanted to make a difference and used their doubt as motivation to press through. Four days after I graduated high school, I joined the U.S. Army.

The 4 years I spent in the Army cultivated a deep-seated passion for serving society. While in the Army, I had the great honor to serve with several men and women who, like me, fought to make a difference in the world. During my tour of duty, I witnessed several shipmates suffer from various mental aliments. Driven by a commitment to serve and a desire to understand the foundations of psychological illness, I decided to return to school to study psychology.

In order to pay for school and continue being active in the community, I enlisted in the Texas Army National Guard as a Medic. Due to the increased deployment schedule and demands placed on all branches of the military after September 11, my attendance in school has necessarily come second to my commitment to the military. There are various semesters where, due to this demand, I attended school less than full time. Despite taking a long time and the difficulty in carving separate time for school with such occupational requirements, I remained persistent aiming towards attending school as my schedule would allow. My military commitment ends this July and will no longer complicate my academic pursuits.

In college, as I became more politically engaged, my interest began to gravitate more towards political science. The interest in serving and understanding people has never changed, yet I realized I could make a greater difference doing something for which I have a deeper passion, political science. Pursuing dual degrees in both Psychology and Political Science, I was provided an opportunity to complete a thesis in Psychology with Dr. Sheryl Carol a Professor in Social Psychology at the University of Texas (UT) This fall I will complete an additional thesis as a McNair Scholar with Dr. Ken Chambers, Associate Professor in Latin American studies in the UT Political Science Department.

As an undergraduate, I was privileged to gain extensive research experience working in a research lab with Dr. Carol. During the three years I worked in her lab, I aided in designing a study, writing an Institutional Review Board (IRB) application, running participants through both pilot and regular studies, coding data, and analyzing said data, with these experiences culminating in my honors thesis. This thesis, entitled Self-Esteem and Need-to-Belong as predictors of implicit stereotypic explanatory bias, focuses on the relationship between levels (high and low) of self-esteem and an individual’s need to belong in a group, and how they predict whether an individual will tend to explain stereotype-inconsistent behavior. Participating in such a large study from start to finish has validated my interest in academic research as a profession.

This fall I will embark on writing an additional honors thesis in political science. While the precise topic of my thesis is undecided, I am particularly interested in Mexico and its development towards a more democratic government. Minoring in Spanish, I have read various pieces of literature from Mexico and have come to respect Mexico and Latin American culture and society. I look forward to conducting this research as it will have a more qualitative tilt than my thesis in psychology, therefore granting an additional understanding of research methodology.

My present decision to switch from social psychology to political science is further related to a study abroad course sponsored by the European Union with Dr. Samuel Mitchell, an Associate Professor in the Political Science Department at UT. Professor Mitchell obtained a grant to take a class of students to Belgium in order to study the EU. This course revealed a direct correlation between what I had studied in the classroom with the real world. After spending several weeks studying the EU, its history and present movement towards integration, the class flew to Brussels where we met with officials and proceeded to learn firsthand how the EU functioned.

My interest in attending the University of Rochester in particular, relates to my first semester at OU and the opportunity to take an introductory course in statistics with the now retired Dr. Larry Miller. Through the combination of a genuine appreciation and knack for statistics and with his encouragement, I proceeded to take his advanced statistics class as well as the first graduate level statistics course at OU. I continued my statistical training by completing the second graduate statistics course on model comparisons with Dr. Roger Johnson, a Professor in the Psychology Department. The model comparison course was not only the most challenging course I have taken as an undergraduate, but the most important. As the sole undergraduate in the course and only college algebra under my belt, I felt quite intimidated. Yet, the rigors of the class compelled me to expand my thinking and learn to overcome any insecurities and deficits in my education. The effort paid off as I earned not only an ‘A’ in the course, but also won the T.O.P.S. (Top Outstanding Psychology Student) award in statistics. This award is given to the top undergraduate student with a demonstrated history of success in statistics.

My statistical training in psychology orientates me toward a more quantitative graduate experience. Due to the University of Rochester’s reputation for an extensive use of statistics in political science research, I would make a good addition to your fall class. While attending the University of Rochester, I would like to study international relations or comparative politics while in graduate school. I find the research of Dr.’s Hein Goemans and Gretchen Helmke intriguing and would like the opportunity to learn more about it through the Graduate Visitation program.

Participation in the University of Rochester’s Graduate School Visitation Program would allow me to learn more about the Department of Political Science to further see if my interests align with those in the department. Additionally, my attendance would allow the Political Science department to make a more accurate determination on how well I would fit in to the program than from solely my graduate school application. Attending the University of Rochester with its focus on quantitative training, would not only allow me to utilize the skills and knowledge I gained as an undergraduate, but also would expand this foundation to better prepare me to conduct research in a manner I find fascinating.

From attending S.E.R.E. (Survival/POW training) in the military and making it through a model comparisons course as an undergraduate, I have rarely shied away from a challenge. I thrive on difficult tasks as I enjoy systematically developing solutions to problems. Attending the University of Rochester would more than likely prove a challenge, but there is no doubt in my mind that I would not only succeed but enable me to offer a unique set of experiences to fellow members of the incoming graduate class.

My handwriting didn’t become jittery until the third round. The number of competitors in the Midwest Spelling Bee had dropped from 100 to the thirty-some who remained after two waves of preliminaries, a group I was awed to be in. The third round would likely be the last one carried out with pencil and paper. A sole word stood between me and the oral competition to follow. My nerves soared at the thought that a mere handful of syllables from the pronouncer’s mouth would offer me a chance to compete in the apex of orthography: the regional bee finals. Yet, when I heard the word “Wagner,” the degree of my confusion was only rivaled by that of my disappointment upon elimination.

My approach to academic success in middle school consisted of rote memorization and stodgy study habits. Fortunately for my sanity and social life, I have since discovered that learning derived from experience can introduce an invaluable layer of reality to otherwise useless knowledge. My hinge moment came near the end of eighth grade when I was stumped by “Wagner” and its ensuing definition: “a German composer, theatre director, polemicist, and conductor who is primarily known for his operas.” To my credit, the phonetic vocalization of Wagner is something like “BAHG-nur,” with the ever ambiguous bee/vee sound. But, an error is an error, and my misspelling of the word earned me a disheartening dismissal from the Midwest Spelling Bee. I immediately resolved to learn about the man whose name was responsible for cheapening my years of poring over vocabulary lists and etymology guides. Upon learning that Richard Wagner was one of the most prolific opera composers in history, I had to investigate. Along my inquisitive quest, I encountered two newfound passions: opera music and the pursuit of stimulating information.

I am an unabashed classical music aficionado. My enthusiasm came gradually over years of imposed piano lessons that eventually became voluntary as my interest in the activity piqued. I came to sense the profound communion with notes on a page arising from tinkering out the same rhythms and melodies that were manuscripts by musical geniuses centuries ago. However, because I could not perform it, I never thought to explore opera. Without my keen interest in Wagner, I may have never encountered the awe-inspiring blend of visual and musical mastery that constitutes his interpretation of the genre. Opera swiftly captured my eye and ear for insightful art. For instance, in his landmark opera, Tristan und Isolde, Wagner unleashed a then-revolutionary tonal system which paved the way for twentieth century classical music. As I unearthed the beauty of opera, my awareness of all the remarkable, groundbreaking themes of Wagner’s productions became embodied by the word “Wagner.” In this striking moment, I could not help but feel the value of connecting my learning to purposeful interaction.

Fueled by my frustration with the outcome of the bee, I searched for the source of my failure. In uncovering the works of Wagner, I gleaned a sense of the vast droves of information that can lie behind a seemingly simple word. I suddenly became aware of my incapacity to seek out the surprising insights that the world might have been waiting to reveal. Thanks to a reevaluation triggered by a failure, I garnered a new appreciation for experiential learning. Since my underwhelming performance nearly four years ago, I have become well versed in the mysterious, gritty art of inquiry. Rather than perceiving my environment to be a sterile list of terms with a neat pronunciation guide to boot, I am now eager to take in the uncommon wisdoms of everything from the innovative operatic tropes of Wagner to the fickle nature of bees—both the pollinating insects and their manmade homonyms.

The exclusiveness portrayed in Mean Girls led me to expect that high school would consist of like-minded cliques. Rather, in high school I found that a single commonality can unite a seemingly random sampling of people. Through marching band, this idea was embodied in a desire to perform music. UChicago’s community is similarly bonded by a serious passion for learning which satisfies my desire to become a thoughtful citizen of tomorrow.

The hierarchy of authority in marching band is one I have come to love, and not only because I achieved the top student position in it as a drum major. In that role, I watched younger members hone their skills in an effort to contribute to the collective performance. The value of a uniform training followed by opportunities to lead is exemplified by the ambitious and talented student leaders produced. At UChicago, The Core serves a comparable purpose in preparing students for exhaustive academic exploration. I am enticed by the intensive inquiry and groundbreaking research that students partake in. Yet, I appreciate the benefit of undergoing the rigorous Core first. UChicago emphasizes experiential learning, even in the College, which appeals to my desire to collaborate with other brilliant learners. When I visited campus, two specific encounters struck me. Initially, the Institute of Politics attracted me with its hands-on approach to policy issues through programs like Student Civic Engagement projects. Even more alluring was the Politics & Policy class I sat in on. Following a lecture on bureaucracy that may have droned over the heads of less inspired students, I was surrounded by a hubbub of engaged thinkers convening through discussion. UChicago’s intellectual atmosphere is animated by the common thirst for knowledge that characterizes every student.

Through marching band, I discovered a passion for influencing others. My dream is that by drawing from UChicago’s empowering community, my drive will transfer to pertinent global issues like human rights in the Middle East. UChicago is my ideal learning environment, for as Wayne Booth stated while he was Dean of the College, UChicago empowers tomorrow’s intellectual leaders to “see through the guff.” During high school, I have grown from an uncertain ninth grader into the capable leader I am today, leaving me optimistic for how I may develop in the next four years.

A travel through my room reveals almost everything about me. The walls are splashed with two tones of eye-burning pink, fairies dance across the vibrant wallpaper sprinkled with sparkles, a white-washed dresser covered in knick-knacks, and an overflowing toy box fit perfectly in this Technicolor dream room.

In one corner of my room, a paint-by-numbers portrait that my grandfather created in a World War II hospital silently tells its story. My grandfather, an Italian barber, raised six children in Bayonne, NJ with my grandmother. My grandparents worked hard to deliver the most American of promises – that your kids will have a better standard of living than you. In that regard, my mother, who put herself through college to become an engineer, made good, affording to give me my own room, a luxury she never knew.

The next corner of my room contains a nondescript desk and laptop, the same as anyone’s room. Who would guess that this desk is also the launching pad of myYearbook.com, a 1.6 million member social networking site that I created? Layers of spec sheets, Post-Its, and emails form a sea of productivity that I find comforting. Scribbled telephone numbers and names remind me of deals I did and didn’t do, reporters who did and didn’t write on me, and technology worries I never stop trying to resolve. Half-drunk coke cans tell the tale of a dozen all-nighters, and someone who is at her most creative at night.

The desk is not all business though. My calculus and economics texts bookend my laptop, and a bouquet of dead flowers from my boyfriend rest in peace on my shelf, revealing a morbid sentimentality. Although the flowers have long died and the water completely evaporated, the card and its words “Jeg synes a du er fantastik og du er det beste ting i mit verden,” are the only reason the flowers never made it to the garbage. In Danish, the sentence translates to, “I think you are fantastic, and you are the best thing in my world.” Ever since I started dating him, I have been learning more and more about his Danish culture, and I plan to go to Denmark twice this year.

The third corner holds my well-worn, folded-up gymnastics floor beam and barely used grips. Unlike many gymnasts though, I prefer not to wear the grips on bars because they make it harder to feel the bar. I started gymnastics when I was five, and since then my hands have earned their calluses, and I am proud of them. You won’t find me moisturizing my hands except to keep them from splitting on the bars.

In the last corner hangs a painting I bought while organizing an online Tsunami Aid Art Project. It was my first significant project online and helped give me a sense of the power of the Internet to connect people. As part of the artist community WetCanvas.com, myself and two other members organized a tsunami-related art project with all proceeds donated to charity. We raised $10,000 in funds, and had about 100 pieces of work donated from artists in nine countries.

Sadly, I know this will not always be my room. The pink fairies will give way to adult- sized possessions and responsibilities. The knick-knacks will break, and the sanctuary of my childhood will soon seem so childish. But, for now, I will embrace the pink, the fairies, and the simplicity of life in my mom’s house. I will look forward to the possibilities of creating another space, as uniquely my own as this one, and as uniquely a part of my past as this room will always be.

When I was a child, I begged my parents for my very own Brother PT-1400 P-Touch Handheld Label Maker to fulfill all of my labeling needs. Other kids had Nintendos and would spend their free time with Mario and Luigi. While they pummeled their video game controllers furiously, the pads of their thumbs dancing across their joysticks, I would type out labels on my industrial-standard P-Touch with just as much zeal. I labeled everything imaginable, dividing hundreds of pens into Ziploc bags by color, then rubber-banding them by point size. The finishing touch, of course, was always a glossy, three-eighths-inch-wide tag, freshly churned out from my handheld labeler and decisively pasted upon the numerous plastic bags I had successfully compiled.

Labeling became therapeutic for me; organizing my surroundings into specific groups to be labeled provides me with a sense of stability. I may not physically need the shiny color-coded label verifying the contents of a plastic bag as BLUE HIGHLIGHTERS—FAT, to identify them as such, but seeing these classifications so plainly allows me to appreciate the reliability of my categorizations. There are no exceptions when I label the top ledge of my bookshelf as containing works from ACHEBE, CHINUA TO CONRAD, JOSEPH. Each book is either filtered into that category or placed definitively into another one. Yet, such consistency only exists in these inanimate objects.

Thus, the break in my role as a labeler comes when I interact with people. Their lives are too complicated, their personalities too intricate for me to resolutely summarize in a few words or even with the 26.2 feet of laminated adhesive tape compatible with my label maker. I have learned that a thin line exists between labeling and just being judgmental when evaluating individuals. I can hardly superficially characterize others as simply as I do my material possessions because people refuse to be so cleanly separated and compartmentalized. My sister Joyce jokes freely and talks with me for hours about everything from the disturbing popularity of vampires in pop culture to cubic watermelons, yet those who don’t know her well usually think of her as timid and introverted. My mother is sometimes my biggest supporter, spouting words of encouragement and, at other instances, my most unrelenting critic. The overlap becomes too indistinct, the contradictions too apparent, even as I attempt to classify those people in the world whom I know best.

Neither would I want others to be predictable enough for me to label. The real joy in human interaction lies in the excitement of the unknown. Overturning expectations can be necessary to preserving the vitality of relationships. If I were never surprised by the behaviors of those around me, my biggest source of entertainment would vanish. For all my love of order when it comes to my room, I don’t want myself, or the people with whom I interact, to fit squarely into any one category. I meticulously follow directions to the millimeter in the chemistry lab but measure ingredients by pinches and dashes in the comfort of my kitchen. I’m a self-proclaimed grammar Nazi, but I’ll admit e. e. cummings’s irreverence does appeal. I’ll chart my television show schedule on Excel, but I would never dream of confronting my chores with as much organization. I even call myself a labeler, but not when it comes to people. As Walt Whitman might put it, “Do I contradict myself? / Very well, then I contradict myself, / (I am large, I contain multitudes.).”

I therefore refrain from the temptation to label—despite it being an act that makes me feel so fulfilled when applied to physical objects—when real people are the subjects. The consequences of premature labeling are too great, the risk of inaccuracy too high because, most of the time, not even the hundreds of alphanumeric digits and symbols available for entry on my P-Touch can effectively describe who an individual really is.

I dreaded their arrival. The tyrannical cicadas swarmed DC and neighboring areas in 1987, 2004, and again in 2021. I was freaking about Brood X, the worst of them all. Brood X is a cluster of cicadas that descend on Washington, D.C., every 17 years. I live in the epicenter of their swarm. Cicadas battled with mosquitoes for first place in the top tier of the human annoyance pyramid. I hate these off-brand cockroaches.

For 17 years, cicadas live underground feasting off of sap, running free of danger. Then, they emerge and face the real world. That sounds familiar. I have lived in the same house, in the same town, for 17 years, with my parents feeding me pasta and keeping me safe.

Is it conceivable that I have more in common with cicadas than I previously thought? Cicadas have beady, red eyes. After a year of enduring Zoom classes, attending tele-health appointments, and spending too much time on social media and video games, I too feel a little blurry-eyed and disoriented. But what about their incessant hum and perpetual noise? That is not me. OK, maybe I do make protein shakes with a noisy blender at all hours of the day. Maybe I do FaceTime vehemently with friends, blare music while I shower, and constantly kick a ball around both inside the house and out.

At least I do not leave damaged wings, shedded skin, or rotting carcasses everywhere. Smelly soccer socks on the clean carpet after a long practice? Check. Pools of turf in the mudroom after sliding all over the field? You got it. Dirty dishes and trail mix stains after accidentally sitting on a mislaid M&M are hardly as abhorrent as cicada remains, right?

The more I reflected, the more I realized these bugs and I are more alike than different. After 17 years of being cooped up, we are both antsy to face new experiences. Of course, cicadas want to broaden their wings, fly, and explore the world, even if it means clumsily colliding into people’s faces, telephone poles, and parked cars. Just like I want to shed my skin and escape to college, even if it means getting lost on campus or ruining a whole load of laundry. Despite all my newbie attributes, I am proceeding to the next phase of my life whether I am ready or not.

Only the hardiest of cicadas survive their emergence and make it to trees to mate, lay eggs, and ensure the existence of their species. I want to be a tenacious Brood X cicada. I will know what it means to travel into the wrong classroom before getting laughed at, bump into an upperclassman before dropping textbooks everywhere, fail an exam after thinking I aced it. I may even become the cicada of the lecture hall by asking a professor for permission to go to the bathroom. Like cicadas, I will need time to learn how to learn.

No matter what challenge I undergo that exposes and channels my inner-cicada, novice thought process, I will regroup and continue to soar toward the ultimate goal of thriving in college.

When I look beyond our beady red eyes, round-the-clock botherment, and messy trails, I now understand there is room for all creatures to grow, both cicadas and humans. Cicadas certainly are on to something … Seventeen years is the perfect amount of time to emerge and get ready to fly.

My first dream job was to be a pickle truck driver. I saw it in my favorite book, Richard Scarry’s “Cars and Trucks and Things That Go,” and for some reason, I was absolutely obsessed with the idea of driving a giant pickle. Much to the discontent of my younger sister, I insisted that my parents read us that book as many nights as possible so we could find goldbug, a small little golden bug, on every page. I would imagine the wonderful life I would have: being a pig driving a giant pickle truck across the country, chasing and finding goldbug. I then moved on to wanting to be a Lego Master. Then an architect. Then a surgeon.

Then I discovered a real goldbug: gold nanoparticles that can reprogram macrophages to assist in killing tumors, produce clear images of them without sacrificing the subject, and heat them to obliteration.

Suddenly the destination of my pickle was clear.

I quickly became enveloped by the world of nanomedicine; I scoured articles about liposomes, polymeric micelles, dendrimers, targeting ligands, and self-assembling nanoparticles, all conquering cancer in some exotic way. Completely absorbed, I set out to find a mentor to dive even deeper into these topics. After several rejections, I was immensely grateful to receive an invitation to work alongside Dr. Sangeeta Ray at Johns Hopkins.

In the lab, Dr. Ray encouraged a great amount of autonomy to design and implement my own procedures. I chose to attack a problem that affects the entire field of nanomedicine: nanoparticles consistently fail to translate from animal studies into clinical trials. Jumping off recent literature, I set out to see if a pre-dose of a common chemotherapeutic could enhance nanoparticle delivery in aggressive prostate cancer, creating three novel constructs based on three different linear polymers, each using fluorescent dye (although no gold, sorry goldbug!). Though using radioactive isotopes like Gallium and Yttrium would have been incredible, as a 17-year-old, I unfortunately wasn’t allowed in the same room as these radioactive materials (even though I took a Geiger counter to a pair of shoes and found them to be slightly dangerous).

I hadn’t expected my hypothesis to work, as the research project would have ideally been led across two full years. Yet while there are still many optimizations and revisions to be done, I was thrilled to find — with completely new nanoparticles that may one day mean future trials will use particles with the initials “RK-1” — that cyclophosphamide did indeed increase nanoparticle delivery to the tumor in a statistically significant way.

A secondary, unexpected research project was living alone in Baltimore, a new city to me, surrounded by people much older than I. Even with moving frequently between hotels, AirBnB’s, and students’ apartments, I strangely reveled in the freedom I had to enjoy my surroundings and form new friendships with graduate school students from the lab. We explored The Inner Harbor at night, attended a concert together one weekend, and even got to watch the Orioles lose (to nobody’s surprise). Ironically, it’s through these new friendships I discovered something unexpected: what I truly love is sharing research. Whether in a presentation or in a casual conversation, making others interested in science is perhaps more exciting to me than the research itself. This solidified a new pursuit to angle my love for writing towards illuminating science in ways people can understand, adding value to a society that can certainly benefit from more scientific literacy.

It seems fitting that my goals are still transforming: in Scarry’s book, there is not just one goldbug, there is one on every page. With each new experience, I’m learning that it isn’t the goldbug itself, but rather the act of searching for the goldbugs that will encourage, shape, and refine my ever-evolving passions. Regardless of the goldbug I seek — I know my pickle truck has just begun its journey.

The sound was loud and discordant, like a hurricane, high notes and low notes mixing together in an audible mess. It was as if a thousand booming foghorns were in a shouting match with sirens. Unlike me, this was a little abrasive and loud. I liked it. It was completely unexpected and extremely fun to play.

Some instruments are built to make multiple notes, like a piano. A saxophone on the other hand doesn’t play chords but single notes through one vibrating reed. However, I discovered that you can play multiple notes simultaneously on the saxophone. While practicing a concert D-flat scale, I messed up a fingering for a low B-flat, and my instrument produced a strange noise with two notes. My band teacher got very excited and exclaimed, “Hey, you just played a polyphonic note!” I like it when accidents lead to discovering new ideas.

I like this polyphonic sound because it reminds me of myself: many things at once. You assume one thing and get another. At school, I am a course scholar in English, but I am also able to amuse others when I come up with wince evoking puns. My math and science teachers expect me to go into engineering, but I’m more excited about making films. Discussing current events with my friends is fun, but I also like to share with them my secrets to cooking a good scotch egg. Even though my last name gives them a hint, the Asian students at our school don’t believe that I’m half Japanese.

Meanwhile the non-Asians are surprised that I’m also part Welsh. I feel comfortable being unique or thinking differently. As a Student Ambassador this enables me to help freshmen and others who are new to our school feel welcome and accepted. I help the new students know that it’s okay to be themselves.

There is added value in mixing things together. I realized this when my brother and I won an international Kavli Science Foundation contest where we explained the math behind the Pixar movie “Up”. Using stop motion animation we explored the plausibility and science behind lifting a house with helium balloons. I like offering a new view and expanding the way people see things. In many of my videos I combine art with education. I want to continue making films that not only entertain, but also make you think.

A lot of people have a single passion that defines them or have a natural talent for something specific. Like my saxophone I am an instrument, but I can play many notes at once. I’m a scholar and a musician. Quiet but talkative. An athlete and a filmmaker. Careful but spontaneous. A fan of Johnny Cash and Kill The Noise. Hard-working but playful. A martial artist and a baker. One of a kind but an identical twin.

Will polyphonic notes resonate in college? Yes. For instance, balancing a creative narrative with scientific facts will make a more believable story. I want to bring together different kinds of students (such as music, film, and English majors) to create more meaningful art. Understanding fellow students’ perspective, talents, and ideas are what build a great community.

I’m looking forward to discovering my place in the world by combining various interests. Who I am doesn’t always harmonize and may seem like nothing but noise to some. But what I play, no matter how discordant, can be beautiful. It’s my own unique polyphonic note.

One hundred and fifty bagels, all completely frozen. I couldn’t believe it. My school’s Model UN Conference was to start in thirty minutes, and breakfast for the delegates was nowhere near ready. I looked with dismay at my friends’ concerned faces peering out from behind piles of frozen bagels. As Secretary-General, it was my job to ensure that this conference went smoothly. However, it seemed that was not going to be the case. I took a moment to weigh my options before instructing Rachael, our “logistics coordinator,” to heat up the frozen circles of doom in the home-ec room. I knew Rachael enjoyed baking, so I trusted her to find a way into the locked room and thaw the assortment of bagels.

The Bachelor of Science in Business Program excites me, as it entails a well rounded yet intensive study in core business disciplines. However, what draws me to Stern is the emphasis on gaining a global perspective, which is crucial in today’s rapidly changing world economy. Through the International Business Exchange Program, I will be able to gain a first-hand cultural experience that will mold me into a global citizen and business leader. Not only will I be taking courses in the most prestigious business schools across the globe, but I will also have new doors opened for me to network with alumni.

As you can see, examples of college essays can look very different. What matters is that they are detailed, specific, and show the admissions team at any school why the writer would enrich campus life—all while answering the college essay prompts. When we look at more examples of college essays, we’ll discuss why these essays—and other college essay examples—worked so well.

When “The Devil Went Down to Georgia” began to play, it was my signal to lay out a winning floor routine. Round off. Back handspring. Double back layout. Stick!

Instead, I jolted off the floor, landing out of bounds. Over the past week, I hadn’t landed that pass once, and regionals were only seven days away. I heaved a heavy sigh and stomped over to the bench.

Coach Farkas saw my consternation. “Mona, get out of your head. You’re way too preoccupied with your tumbling passes. You could do them in your sleep!”

That was the problem. I was dreaming of tumbling and missing my landings, waking up in a cold sweat. The stress felt overwhelming.

“Stretch out. You’re done for tonight.”

I walked home from the gym that had been my second home since fourth grade. Yet my anxiety was increasing every time I practiced.

I startled my mom. “You’re home early! Wait! You walked? Mona, what’s going on?!”

I slumped down at the kitchen table. “Don’t know.”

She sat down across from me. “Does it have anything to do with your father texting you a couple of weeks ago about coming to see you at regionals?”

“So what?! Why does it matter anymore?” He walked out when I was 10 and never looked back. Still, dear ol’ Dad always had a way of resurfacing when I least expected him.

“It still matters because when you hear from him, you tend to crumble. Or have you not noticed?” She offered a knowing wink and a compassionate smile.

I started gymnastics right after Dad left. The coaches said I was a natural: short, muscular, and flexible. All I knew was that the more I improved, the more confident I felt. Gymnastics made me feel powerful, so I gave it my full energy and dedication.

The floor routine became my specialty, and my performances were soon elevating our team score. The mat, solid and stable, became a place to explore and express my internal struggles. Over the years, no matter how angry I felt, the floor mat was there to absorb my frustration.

The bars, beam, and vault were less forgiving because I knew I could fall. My performances in those events were respectable. But, the floor? Sometimes, I had wildly creative and beautiful routines, while other times were disastrous. Sadly, my floor routine had never been consistent.

That Saturday afternoon, I slipped into the empty gym and walked over to the mat. I sat down and touched its carpeted surface. After a few minutes, my cheeks were wet with the bitter disappointment of a dad who only showed up when it was convenient for him. I ruminated on the years of practices and meets where I had channeled my resentment into acrobatics and dance moves, resolved to rise higher than his indifference.

I saw then that my deepest wounds were inextricably entangled with my greatest passion. They needed to be permanently separated. While my anger had first served to launch me into gymnastics, before long, I had started serving my anger.

Anger is a cruel master. It corrupts everything it touches, even something as beautiful as a well-choreographed floor routine.

I changed my music days before regionals. “The Devil” no longer had a place in my routine. Instead, I chose an energetic cyberpunk soundtrack that inspired me to perform with passion and laser focus. Dad made an obligatory appearance at regionals, but he left before I could talk to him.

It didn’t matter this time. I stuck every landing in my routine. Anger no longer controlled me. I was finally free.

I never had a choice.

My baby sister was born severely autistic, which meant that every detail of our home life was repeatedly adjusted to manage her condition. I couldn’t go to bed without fearing that Mindy would wake up screaming with that hoarse little voice of hers. I couldn’t have friends over on weekends because we never knew if our entire family would need to shift into crisis mode to help Mindy regain control.

We couldn’t take a family vacation because Mindy would start hitting us during a long car ride when she didn’t want to sit there anymore. We couldn’t even celebrate Christmas like a normal family because Mindy would shriek and run away when we tried to give her presents.

I was five years old when Mindy was born. For the first ten years, I did everything I could to help my mom with Mindy. But Mom was depressed and would often stare out the window, as if transfixed by the view. Dad was no help either. He used his job as an excuse to be away from home. So, I tried to make up for both of them and rescue Mindy however I could whenever she needed it.

However, one day, when I was slowly driving Mindy around with the windows down, trying to lull her into a calmer state, we passed two of my former classmates from middle school. They heard Mindy growling her disapproval as the ride was getting long for her. One of them turned to the other and announced, “Oh my God! Marabeth brought her pet monster out for a drive!” They laughed hysterically and ran down the street.

After that day, I defied my parents at every turn. I also ignored Mindy. I even stopped doing homework. I purposely “got in with the wrong crowd” and did whatever they did.

My high school counselor Ms. Martinez saw through it all. She knew my family’s situation well. It didn’t take her long to guess what had probably happened.

“Marabeth, I get it. My brother has Down syndrome. It was really hard growing up with him as a brother. The other kids were pretty mean about it, especially in high school.”

I doubted she understood. “Yeah. So?”

“I’m guessing something happened that hurt or embarrassed you.”

“Maybe.”

“I’m so sorry. I can only imagine how you must have felt.”

It must have been the way she said it because I suddenly found myself sobbing into my trembling, cupped hands.

Ms. Martinez and I met every Friday after that for the rest of the year. Her stories of how she struggled to embrace living with and loving her brother created a bridge to my pain and then my healing. She explained that her challenges led her to pursue a degree in counseling so that she could offer other people what no one had given her.

I thought that Mindy was the end of my life, but, because of Ms. Martinez’s example and kindness, I can now see that Mindy is a gift, pointing me toward my future.

Now, I’m applying to study psychology so that I can go on to earn my master’s degree in counseling. I’m learning to forgive my parents for their mistakes, and I’m back in Mindy’s life again, but this time as a sister, not a savior. My choice.

“No son of mine is gonna march around a football field wearing tail feathers while all the real men are playing football!”

I took a step backward and tried not to appear as off-balance as I felt. In my excitement, I had blurted out more information than my father could handle:

“Dad! I made the marching band as a freshman! Nobody does that—I mean nobody!”

As soon as I had said it, I wished I could recall those words. How could I forget that 26 years earlier, he had been the starting wide receiver for the state-champion Tigers on the same field?!

Still, when I opened the email on that scorching hot August afternoon, I was thrilled that five months of practicing every possible major and harmonic minor scale—two octaves up and two octaves down—had made the difference. I had busted reed after reed, trying not to puff my cheeks while moving my fingers in a precise cadence.

I knew he had heard me continually practicing in my room, yet he seemed to ignore all the parts of me that were incongruous with his vision of manhood:

Ford F-150 4x4s. Pheasant hunting. The Nebraska Cornhuskers.

I never had to wonder what he valued. For years, I genuinely shared his interests. But, in the fall of eighth grade, I heard Kyle Wheeling play a saxophone solo during the homecoming marching band halftime show. My dad took me to every football game to teach me the plays, but that night, all I could think about was Kyle’s bluesy improv at halftime.

During Thanksgiving break, I got my mom to drive me into Omaha to rent my instrument at Dietze Music, and, soon after, I started private lessons with Mr. Ken. Before long, I was spending hours in my room, exploring each nuance of my shiny Yamaha alto sax, anticipating my audition for the Marching Tigers at the end of the spring semester.

During those months of practice, I realized that I couldn’t hide my newfound interest forever, especially not from the football players who were going to endlessly taunt me. But not all the guys played football. Some were in choir and theater. Quite a few guys were in the marching band. In fact, the Marching Tigers had won the grand prize in their division at last year’s state showdown in Lincoln.

I was excited! They were the champions, and I was about to become a part of their legacy.

Yet, that afternoon, a sense of anxiety brewed in my belly. I knew I had to talk to him.

“Dad?”

He was sweeping the grass clippings off of the sidewalk. He nodded.

“I need to tell you something.”

He looked up.

“I know that you know about my sax because you hear me practicing. I like it a lot, and I’m becoming pretty good at it. I still care about what you like, but I’m starting to like some other things more. I hope you’ll be proud of me whatever I choose.”

He studied the cracks in the driveway. “I am proud of you. I just figured you’d play football.”

We never talked about it again, but that fall, he was in the stands when our marching band won the state championship in Lincoln for the second time. In fact, for the next four years, he never left the stands during halftime until the marching band had performed. He was even in the audience for every performance of “Our Town” at the end of my junior year. I played the Stage Manager who reveals the show’s theme: everything changes gradually.

I know it’s true. Things do change over time, even out here in central Nebraska. I know because I’ve changed, and my dad has changed, too. I just needed the courage to go first.

I stared in disbelief at the big red letter at the top of my paper: D.

Never in my entire high school career had I seen that letter at the top of any paper, unless it was at the beginning of my first name.

I had a 4.796 GPA. I had taken every pre-AP and AP course offered. My teachers had praised my writing skills! However, Mr. Trimble didn’t think so, and he let me know it:

“Darwin, in the future, I believe you can do better if you fully apply yourself.”

I furiously scanned the paper for corrections. Not even one! Grammar and syntax? Perfect. Spelling? Impeccable. Sentence and paragraph structure? Precise and indisputable, as always.

Was he trying to ruin my GPA? Cooper was clearly his favorite, and we were neck and neck for valedictorian, which was only one year away. Maybe they were conspiring to take me down.

Thankfully, AP Composition was my last class. I fled the room and ran to my car. Defiant tears stained my cheeks as I screeched my tires and roared out of the parking lot. When I got home, I shoved in my AirPods, flopped on my bed, and buried my head under the pillow.

I awoke to my sister, Daria, gently shaking my arm. “I know what happened, D. Trimble stopped me in the hall after school.”

“I’m sure he did. He’s trying to ruin my life.”

“That’s not what he told me. You should talk to him, D.”

The next day, although I tried to avoid Mr. Trimble at all costs, I almost tripped over him as I was coming out of the bathroom.

“Darwin, can we talk?”

He walked me down the hall to his room. “Do you know that you’re one of the best writers I’ve ever had in AP Comp?”

“Then why’d you do it?”

“Because you’re better than you know, Darwin. You impress with your perfect presentations, and your teachers reward you with A’s and praise. I do frequent the teacher’s lounge, you know.”

“So?”

“So I know you’re not trying.”

I locked eyes with him and glared.

“You’ve never had to try because you have a gift. And, in the midst of the acclaim, you’ve never pushed yourself to discover your true capabilities.”

“So you give me a D?!”

“It got your attention.”

“You’re not going to leave it, are you?”

“Oh, the D stands. You didn’t apply yourself. You’ll have to earn your way out with your other papers.”

I gained a new understanding of the meaning of ambivalence. Part of me was furious at the injustice of the situation, but I also felt strangely challenged and intrigued. I joined a local writer’s co-op and studied K. M. Weiland’s artistic writing techniques.

Multiple drafts, track changes, and constructive criticism became my new world. I stopped taking Mr. Trimble’s criticism personally and began to see it as a precious tool to bolster me, not break me down.

Last week, the New York Public Library notified me that I was named one of five finalists for the Young Lions Fiction Award. They described my collection of short stories as “fresh, imaginative, and captivating.”

I never thought I could be grateful for a D, but Mr. Trimble’s insightful courage was the catalyst that transformed my writing and my character. Just because other people applaud you for being the best doesn’t mean you’re doing your best.

AP Composition is now recorded as an A on my high school transcript, and Cooper and I are still locked in a tight race for the finish line. But, thanks to Mr. Trimble, I have developed a different paradigm for evaluation: my best. And the more I apply myself, the better my best becomes.

Originally, I went to church not because I was searching for Jesus but because I liked a boy.

Isaac Ono wasn’t the most athletic boy in our class, nor was he the cutest. But I was amazed by his unusual kindness toward everyone. If someone was alone or left out, he’d walk up to them and say hello or invite them to hang out with him and his friends.

I started waking up at 7:30 a.m. every Sunday morning to attend Grace Hills Presbyterian, where Isaac’s father was the pastor. I would strategically sit in a pew not too close but close enough to Isaac that when the entire congregation was instructed to say “Peace be with you,” I could “happen” to shake Isaac’s hand and make small talk.

One service, as I was staring at the back of Isaac’s head, pondering what to say to him, my hearing suddenly tuned in to his father’s sermon.

“There’s no such thing as a good or bad person.”

My eyes snapped onto Pastor Marcus.

“I used to think I was a good person who came from a respectable family and did nice things. But people aren’t inherently good or bad. They just make good or bad choices.”

My mind raced through a mental checklist of whether my past actions fell mostly into the former or latter category.

“As it says in Deuteronomy 30:15, ‘I have set before you today life and good, death and evil.’ Follow in the footsteps of Jesus and do good.”

I glanced to my left and saw Margaret, underlining passages in her study Bible and taking copious notes.

Months earlier, I had befriended Margaret. We had fourth-period Spanish together but hadn’t interacted much. She was friends with Isaac, so I started hanging out with her to get closer to him. But eventually, the two of us were spending hours in the Starbucks parking lot having intense discussions about religion, boys, and our futures until we had to return home before curfew.

After hearing the pastor’s sermon, I realized that what I had admired about Isaac was also present in Margaret and other people at church: a welcoming spirit. I’m pretty sure Margaret knew of my ulterior motives for befriending her, but she never called me out on it.

After that day, I started paying more attention to Pastor Marcus’s sermons and less attention to Isaac. One year, our youth group served Christmas Eve dinner to the homeless and ate with them. I sat across from a woman named Lila who told me how child services had taken away her four-year-old daughter because of her financial and living situation.

A few days later, as I sat curled up reading the book of James, my heart suddenly felt heavy.

“If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, ‘Go in peace, be warmed and filled,’ without giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that?”

I thought back to Pastor Marcus’s sermon on good and bad actions, Lila and her daughter, and the times I had passed people in need without even saying hello.

I decided to put my faith into action. The next week, I started volunteering at the front desk of a women’s shelter, helping women fill out forms or watching their kids while they talked with social workers.

From working for the past year at the women’s shelter, I now know I want to major in social work, caring for others instead of focusing on myself. I may not be a good person (or a bad one), but I can make good choices, helping others with every opportunity God gives me.

The worst part about writing is putting down my Rubik’s cube so that I can use my hands to type. That’s usually the worst part of tackling my to-do list: setting aside my Rubik’s cube. My parents call it an obsession. But, for me, solving a Rubik’s cube challenges my brain as nothing else can.

It started on my ninth birthday. I invited three friends for a sleepover party, and I waited to open my presents right before bed. Wrapping paper, ribbons, and bows flew through the air as I oohed and aahed over each delightful gift! However, it was the last gift—a 3 x 3 x 3 cube of little squares covered in red, green, blue, yellow, white, and orange—that intrigued me.

I was horrified when Bekka ripped it out of my hands and messed it all up! I had no idea how to make all the sides match again. I waited until my friends were fast asleep. Then, I grabbed that cube and studied it under my blanket with a flashlight, determined to figure out how to restore it to its former pristine state.

Within a few weeks, I had discovered the secret. To practice, I’d take my cube with me to recess and let the other kids time me while I solved it in front of them. The better I became, the more they gathered around. But I soon realized that their attention didn’t matter all that much. I loved solving cubes for hours wherever I was: at lunch, riding in the car, or alone in my room.

Cross. White corners. Middle-layer edges. Yellow cross. Sune and anitsune.

The sequential algorithms became second nature, and with the assistance of a little black digital timer, I strove to solve the cube faster, each time attempting to beat my previous record. I watched speed solvers on YouTube, like Australia’s Feliks Zemdegs and Max Park from Massachusetts, but I wasn’t motivated to compete as they did. I watched their videos to learn how to improve my time. I liked finding new, more efficient ways of mastering the essential 78 separate cube-solving algorithms.

Now, I understand why my passion for my Rubik’s cube has never waned. Learning and applying the various algorithms soothes my brain and centers my emotions, especially when I feel overwhelmed from being around other people. Don’t get me wrong: I like other people—just in doses.

While some people get recharged by spending time with others, I can finally breathe when I’m alone with my cube. Our psychology teacher says the difference between an extrovert and an introvert is the situations that trigger their brains to produce dopamine. For me, it’s time away, alone, flipping through cube patterns to set a new personal best.

Sometimes, the world doesn’t cooperate with introverts, requiring them to interact with many people throughout the day. That’s why you’ll often find me in the stairwell or a library corner attempting to master another one of the 42 quintillion ways to solve a cube. My parents tease me that when I’ve “had enough” of anything, my fingers get a Rubik’s itch, and I suddenly disappear. I’m usually occupied for a while, but when I finally emerge, I feel centered, prepared to tackle my next task.

Secretly, I credit my cube with helping me earn top marks in AP Calculus, Chemistry, and Physics. It’s also responsible for my interest in computer engineering. It seems I just can’t get enough of those algorithms, which is why I want to study the design and implementation of cybersecurity software—all thanks to my Rubik’s cube.

Just don’t tell my parents! It would ruin all the fun!

The time has come to answer college’s most difficult question: Whose story shows glory?

This is … Iron Chef America: College Essay Edition!

Welcome to Kitchen Stadium! Today we have Chef Brett Lowell. Chef Brett will be put to the test to prove he has what it takes to attend university next fall.

And the secret ingredient is … leadership! He must include leadership in each of his dishes, which will later be evaluated by a panel of admissions judges.

So now, America, with a creative mind and empty paper, I say unto you in the words of my teacher: “Let’s write!”

Appetizer: My first leadership experience

A mountain of mismatched socks, wrinkled jeans, and my dad’s unironed dress shirts sat in front of me. Laundry was just one of many chores that welcomed me home once I returned from my after-school job at Baskin Robbins, a gig I had taken last year to help Dad pay the rent. A few years earlier, I wasn’t prepared to cook dinners, pay utility bills, or pick up and drop off my brothers. I thought those jobs were reserved for parents. However, when my father was working double shifts at the power plant and my mom was living in Tucson with her new husband, Bill, I stepped up and took care of the house and my two younger brothers.

Main course: My best leadership experience

Between waiting for the pasta water to boil and for the next laundry cycle to be finished, I squeezed in solving a few practice precalculus problems to prepare for the following week’s mathletics competition. I liked how the equations always had clear, clean answers, which calmed me among the mounting responsibilities of home life. After leading my team to the Minnesota State Finals for two years in a row, I was voted team captain. Although my home responsibilities often competed with my mathlete duties, I tried to be as productive as possible in my free time. On the bus ride home, I would often tackle 10 to 20 functions or budget the following week’s meals and corresponding grocery list. My junior year was rough, but both my home and my mathlete team needed me.

Dessert: My future leadership hopes

The first thing I ever baked was a chocolate cake in middle school. This was around the time that Mom had just moved out and I was struggling with algebra. Troubles aside, one day my younger brother Simon needed a contribution for his school’s annual bake sale, and the PTA moms wouldn’t accept anything store-bought. So I carefully measured out the teaspoons and cups of various flours, powders, and oils, which resulted in a drooping, too-salty disaster.

Four years later, after a bakery’s worth of confections and many hours of study, I’ve perfected my German chocolate cake and am on my way to mastering Calculus AB. I’ve also thrown out the bitter-tasting parts of my past such as my resentment and anger toward my mom. I still miss having her at home, but whenever I have a baking question or want to update her on my mathlete team’s success, I call her or chat with her over text.

Whether in school or life, I see problems as opportunities, not obstacles, to find a better way to solve them more efficiently. I hope to continue improving my problem-solving skills next fall by majoring in mathematics and statistics.

Time’s up!

We hope you’ve enjoyed this tasting of Chef Lowell’s leadership experiences. Next fall, tune in to see him craft new leadership adventures in college. He’s open to refining his technique and discovering new recipes.

At eleven years old, I wrote the New York Times best-selling novel, The Chosen, the first installation in a trilogy that would become the newest sensation of the fantasy genre, and grow to be even more popular than the Harry Potter series. At least, that what I originally imagined as I feverishly typed the opening words of my manuscript. I had just received a call from my parents, who were on a business trip in London. While touring the city, they heard about an amateur novel writing contest open to all ages, and thought that I, as an amateur writer, would be interested. All I had to do was compose an original manuscript of merely 80,000 words and submit it to an office in London, and I could win $20,000 in addition to a publishing deal.

I hung up the phone with a smile plastered on my face. Never mind that I was barely eleven, that my portfolio consisted of a few half-page poems from elementary school, or that the contest was taking place on another continent, I was determined to write the most extraordinary fantasy novel ever created. For months afterward the sight of me was accompanied by the tap, tap, tap of my fingers flying across the keyboard, and the sharp glint of obsession in my eyes. The contest in London closed, a winner was chosen. I didn’t care. I kept writing. After a year I had stretched my writing project into a three hundred page novel. I scraped together a few dollars of allowance money, slapped it in my mom’s hand, and asked her to have Staples print a bound copy of the manuscript.

She handed me my magnum opus when I got home from school that day. I ran my fingers across the shiny laminate over the cover page, caressed the paper as if it were some sacred tome. After more than fourteen months fleshing out characters and cultivating mythologies, I was ready to publish. With the copy in hand I ran to my dad. “Read it and tell me what you think!” I said, imagining the line of publishing companies that would soon be knocking down my door.

Within two weeks my father handed it back to me, the pages now scrawled over in bright red ink. “You’ve got a lot of work to do,” he told me, with his typical soul-wrenching brusque.

I stared at him for a moment, jaw locked tight, eyes nearly brimming with tears. He proceeded to list for me all the things I needed to revise for my next draft. Less colloquial dialogue, vivid descriptions, more complex subplots, the list went on and on.

“A serious author doesn’t get offended by constructive criticism,” he said, “whether you take my advice or not will prove whether or not you are one.”

My dreams fell like the Berlin wall. What was the point of slaving over a novel if I had to start from scratch again? My father’s advice would force me to rewrite the entire novel. What sort of writer was I, that my work warranted such substantial alteration?

As I soon learned—a normal one.

Today, six years, 10 drafts, and 450 pages later, I am finally close to finishing. Sometimes, when I’m feeling insecure about my ability as a novelist I open up my first draft again, turn to a random chapter, and read it aloud. Publishing that first draft would have been a horrible embarrassment that would have haunted me for the rest of my life. Over the past half-decade, I’ve been able to explore my own literary voice, and develop a truly original work that I will be proud to display. This experience taught me that “following your dreams” requires more than just wishing upon a star. It takes sacrifice, persistence, and grueling work to turn fantasy into reality.

I am an aspiring hot sauce sommelier. Ever since I was a child, I have been in search for all that is spicy. I began by dabbling in peppers of the jarred variety. Pepperoncini, giardiniera, sports peppers, and jalapeños became not only toppings, but appetizers, complete entrées, and desserts. As my palate matured, I delved into a more aggressive assortment of spicy fare. I’m not referring to Flamin’ Hot Cheetos, the crunchy snack devoured by dilettantes. No, it was bottles of infernal magma that came next in my tasting curriculum.

Despite the current lack of certification offered for the profession which I am seeking, I am unquestionably qualified. I can tell you that a cayenne pepper sauce infused with hints of lime and passion fruit is the perfect pairing to bring out the subtle earthy undertones of your microwave ramen. I can also tell you that a drizzle of full-bodied Louisiana habanero on my homemade vanilla bean ice cream serves as an appetizing complement. For the truly brave connoisseur, I suggest sprinkling a few generous drops of Bhut Jolokia sauce atop a bowl of chili. Be warned, though; one drop too many and you might find yourself like I did, crying over a heaping bowl of kidney beans at the dining room table.

Although I consistently attempt to cultivate the rarest and most expertly crafted bottles of molten spice, like an oenophile who occasionally sips on five dollar bottles of wine, I am neither fussy nor finicky. I have no qualms about dousing my omelets with Cholula, dipping my tofu in pools of Sriracha, or soaking my vegetarian chicken nuggets in the Frank’s Red Hot that my mom bought from the dollar store. No matter the quality or cost, when gently swirled, wafted, and swished; the sauces excite my senses. Each initial taste, both surprising yet subtly familiar, has taught me the joy of the unknown and the possibility contained within the unexpected.

My ceaseless quest for piquancy has inspired many journeys, both gustatory and otherwise. It has dragged me into the depths of the souks of Marrakech, where I purchased tin cans filled with Harissa. Although the chili sauce certainly augmented the robust aroma of my tagine, my food was not the only thing enriched by this excursion. My conquest has also brought me south, to the valleys of Chile, where I dined among the Mapuche and flavored my empanadas with a smoky seasoning of Merkén. Perhaps the ultimate test of my sensory strength occurred in Kolkata, India. After making the fatal mistake of revealing my penchant for spicy food to my friend’s grandmother, I spent the night with a raw tongue and cold sweats. I have learned that spice isn’t always easy to digest. It is the distilled essence of a culture, burning with rich history. It is a universal language that communicates passion, pain, and renewal. Like an artfully concocted hot sauce, my being contains alternating layers of sweetness and daring which surround a core that is constantly being molded by my experiences and adventures.

I’m not sure what it is about spiciness that intrigues me. Maybe my fungiform papillae are mapped out in a geography uniquely designed to appreciate bold seasonings. Maybe these taste buds are especially receptive to the intricacies of the savors and zests that they observe. Or maybe it’s simply my burning sense of curiosity. My desire to challenge myself, to stimulate my mind, to experience the fullness of life in all of its varieties and flavors.

“You know nothing, Jon Snow”

Being an avid Game of Thrones fanatic, I fancy every character, scene, and line. However,Ygritte’s famous line proves to be just slightly more relatable than the incest, corruption, and sorcery that characterizes Westeros.

Numerous theories explore the true meaning of these five words, but I prefer to think they criticize seventeen-year-old Jon’s lack of life experience. Growing up in a lord’s castle, he has seen little about the real world; thus, he struggles to see the bigger picture until he evaluates all angles.

Being in a relatively privileged community myself, I can affirm the lack of diverse perspectives —and even more, the scarcity of real-world problems. Instead, my life has been horrifically plagued by first world problems. I’ve written a eulogy and held a funeral for my phone charger.

I’ve thrown tantrums when my knitted sweaters shrunk in the dryer. And yes, I actually have cried over spilled (organic) milk.

Well, shouldn’t I be happy with the trivial “problems” I’ve faced? Shouldn’t I appreciate the opportunities and the people around me?

Past the “feminism v. menimism” and “memes” of the internet, are heartbreaking stories and photos of life outside my metaphorical “Bethpage Bubble.” How can I be content when I am utterly oblivious to the perspectives of others? Like Jon Snow, I’ve never lived a day in another person’s shoes.

Fewer than three meals a day. No extra blanket during record-breaking winter cold. No clean water. I may be parched after an intense practice, but I know nothing of poverty.

Losing a loved one overseas. Being forced to leave your home. Coups d’état and dictatorial governments. I battle with my peers during class discussions, but I know nothing of war.

Denial of education. Denial of religion. Denial of speech. I have an endless list of freedoms, and I know nothing of oppression.

Malaria. Cholera. Cancer. I watch how Alzheimer’s progresses in my grandmother, but I know nothing of disease.

Living under a strict caste system. Being stereotyped because of one’s race. Unwarranted prejudice. I may be in a minority group, yet I know nothing of discrimination.

Flappers, speakeasies, and jazz. Two world wars. Pagers, hippies, and disco. I’m barely a 90’s kid who relishes SpongeBob episodes, and I know nothing of prior generations.

Royal weddings, tribal ceremonies, and Chinese New Years. I fast during Ramadan, but I know nothing of other cultures.

Hostile political parties. Progressive versus retrospective. Right and wrong. I am seventeen, and I know nothing of politics.

Is ignorance really bliss?

Beyond my community and lifetime exists myriad events I’ll never witness, people I’ll never meet, and beliefs I’ll never understand. Being unexposed to the culture and perspectives that comprise this world, I know I can never fully understand anyone or anything. Yet, irony is beautiful.

Embarking on any career requires making decisions on behalf of a community, whether that be a group of students, or a patient, or the solar system.

I am pleased to admit like Jon Snow, I know nothing, but that will change in college.

I walked down the pale pink stone pathway, up a ramp, past the library building, and towards the Student Activities Center of the college campus, carrying a large brown cardboard box. People might’ve taken note of the load I was carrying, and particularly the other high school students with whom I ate my dinner. Out of the box I grabbed my meal, which was wrapped in two separate plastic airplane meal style trays; one container for the side and one for the main. I tried not to call attention to myself as I unwrapped the tight double wrapping of plastic around both trays.

My actions and practices were the same, but for the first time I stood out. While I was eating my meals, in the lab, or during the lectures, I began to ask myself some questions.

Was it worth continuing to strictly observe my customs in such an environment? I thought.

Could I afford to take time away from the lab to walk to the kosher restaurant to pick up lunch? Was continuing to dress in a long skirt, on hot summer days and with additional lab dress codes, worth the discomfort? Was it worth standing out from most other people?

The science experiment that I performed that summer in a way mirrored the experiment that I “performed” to test my practices. My lab partner and I researched the current issue of antibiotic resistant bacteria strains, which left certain bacterial infections without an effective cure; this was our observation. We then hypothesized that an alternative mechanism of destruction, by physically slicing the bacterial membrane, would be more efficient. Similarly, I hypothesized that an alternative life path without my religious practices might be an “effective” life path for me, as it had been for the students that I met, with the added social benefits of fitting in. I hypothesized that perhaps my own life would be “effective” or fulfilling without these practices, as it was for the students whom I had met. Wearing our purple nitrite gloves, our safety goggles pressing against our faces, my partner and I began to prepare our tiny metal chips, containing a thin coating of polymer blends, which would prick the membranes of the bacteria cells.

In my personal experiment, the “testing” stage became tricky. I didn’t put on my lab coat, and start spin casting my solutions or pipetting liquids onto surfaces. I didn’t even try eating some food that was not kosher, or actively violate my practices. My experiment eventually went beyond the scientific approach, as I questioned in my thoughts. I had to determine what my beliefs meant to me, to find my own answer. I could not simply interpret results of an experiment, but needed to find my own interpretations.

I found from my experiment and questioning within my mind that my practices distinguished me from others, thereby allowing me to form relationships on the basis of common interest or personality, rather than cultural similarities, that summer. I valued the relationships more, and formed a deep connection with my lab partner, whom I had found was similar to me in many ways. We talked about our very different lives, genuinely interested in one another’s.

I’m still questioning, and I think the process does not end, which is part of what makes my religious practice important to me – it urges me to constantly reflect on my values and the moral quality of my actions. I’m not sure if I’ll ever finish that “experiment,” but by experiencing and valuing the practices and lifestyles of other people, I also got to reflect on my own. That summer showed me that the questions themselves proved my practices were valuable to me, and left me with a stronger commitment to my religious faith than I had before.

Simply put, my place of inner peace is the seat of that 50 foot sliver of carbon and kevlar called a rowing shell, cutting through the water in the middle of a race. This is the one situation in which I find myself to be completely comfortable; the one environment in which I feel most empowered, at home, and content, despite it being quite at odds with the conventional definition of the word “comfortable”. There is something special about a rowing race; that 6 minute, 2000 meter tour de force that many who have truly experienced one (and all who have emerged victorious) will describe as the most painful, and yet the most thrilling activity they have ever been a part of.

The pain of rowing 2000 meters is like nothing else I have ever experienced. It is a short enough distance so that there is no pacing (it’s all out, everything you’ve got, from start to finish), but at the same time it’s long enough to require every ounce of strength and will power to reach the finish. By the end, the lungs scream out for oxygen, and the legs, chest, and arms all burn as if boiling water has been injected into every pore. The mental toughness required to drag oneself through this ordeal, from the moment it starts to hurt 30 seconds in to the moment you cross the finish line, is immense. The psychological state that is entered into during a race is one of unparalleled focus, drive, and will to win.

The race begins with six boats lined up side by side, tensed and ready to pounce. The umpire then makes the call, “Attention. Row” in a tone that seems entirely too casual for the occasion, and the bows spring forward. What was moments before an atmosphere of complete silence is transformed into a world of noise. Here is a short list of things one hears at the start of a rowing race: the authoritative yell of the coxswains, the rhythmic click of the oars, the fluid swish of the water under the boat, the roar of the officials’ launches falling in behind the boats. I always find it funny though, that while the tense silence of the pre-race moments dissolves so quickly into noise from every direction, a rower can only actually hear any of it for a surprisingly short period of time. This is because at about two minutes into a race, a rower begins to lose his senses. Scent disappears completely, touch is negligible, hearing dissolves into nothing but the calls of the cox, and sight reduces itself to a portrait of the back of the rower in front of you. It is in this bizzare state of mind and body that I am truly in my “comfort zone”.

The pain is intense, yes, but I have felt it before. I feel it quite regularly, actually. The training a rower goes through to prepare for a race begins months in advance and consists of pushing oneself to the limit; repeatedly putting oneself in positions of pain and discomfort so that when crunch time comes, a rower is truly without fear of what lies ahead of him. This is how I feel when the going gets tough at around two minutes in: fearless. In these moments I feel invincible; I feel like I was born to do exactly what I am doing right then and there. In these moments I am completely and totally content.

So this is what compassion is all about? Piece of cake.

Joey was a sweet, ten-year-old boy who could derive pleasure even in the most prosaic of activities: catching a balloon, listening to music, watching other children run, jump, and play. But Joey himself was confined to a wheelchair – he would never be able to participate in the same way that his friends without physical disabilities could.

Joey was the first child assigned to me when I began volunteering for the Friendship Circle, an organization that pairs teenage volunteers with special-needs children. Right from the start, I was grateful for being matched up with this sweet, easy-going child; I felt immense relief at how effortless my volunteering commitment with Joey could be. Simply by wheeling my friend through tiled halls and breezy gardens, I simultaneously entertained him and inspired others with my acts of kindness.

Piece of cake.

Truthfully, though, during my time with Joey, I felt more than a little virtuous and pleased with myself. There I was, able to impress everyone with my dedication to Joey, with only minimal effort on my part. My experience with Joey led me to mistakenly believe that I had, by the age of thirteen, attained a complete understanding of what a word like “empathy” really meant. I was complacent in my comfort zone, confident that I understood what compassion was all about.

Then I met Robyn, and I realized how wrong I was.

Prone to anger, aggressive, sometimes violent (I have the scar to prove it). Every Sunday with Robyn was a challenge. Yoga, dancing, cooking, art, tennis – none of these activities held her interest for long before she would inevitably throw a tantrum or stalk over to a corner to sulk or fight with the other children. She alternated between wrapping her arms around my neck, declaring to anyone who passed by that she loved me, and clawing at my arms, screaming at me to leave her alone.

One day, after an unsuccessful attempt to break up a brawl between Robyn and another girl, I found myself taking dazed steps towards the administrator’s office. I was near my breaking point, ready to quit. In that moment, though, I vividly recall looking up and seeing Robyn’s parents walking down the hall coming to pick her up. Tired eyes. Weary, but appreciative smiles. A realization then struck me: I was only with Robyn for one day a week. During the rest of the week, Robyn was the sole responsibility of her parents. The same parents who once confided in me that Robyn behaved no differently at home than she did at the Friendship Circle with me.

Robyn’s parents undeniably loved her. There were even moments when Robyn transformed into one of the sweetest children I had ever met. But she was no Joey. Sweet, easygoing Joey. Joey who I thought had taught me true empathy. If I was such a saint, how could I give back to Joey’s parents, but not to Robyn’s? How could I not provide them a brief respite every week, from the labors of caring for her? Was I sincerely an empathetic person if I could only be so when it was easy? Was I truly compassionate because others thought I was? Complacency does not equate with compassion; true empathy is not an ephemeral trait that one possesses only when it suits him or her – when it doesn’t require him or her to try.

Progress exists in steps. The first steps were the ones I took with Joey, my earliest experience in volunteering. But the steps I took away from the administrator’s office, the steps I took back toward Robyn, were the steps of a different person, I like to think.

I believe every person is molded by their experiences whether they be positive or negative. I have been impacted by many events and challenges, both personally and socially, that have made me who I am today.

I was born in Concepcion de Buenos Aires in Jalisco, Mexico. My dad did not always live with us and worked doing manual labor in the United States every three months to provide income for us transitioning between the United States and Mexico when he could. When I was six, my Spanish-speaking family immigrated to the United States. Once here in the United States, I found English difficult to learn at school since it was brand new to me. English-speaking students always had to translate for me which motivated me to become fluently proficient by third grade.

In addition to the language barrier at school, my family would constantly move due to apartment rent increase, so I never grew accustomed to a group of friends.  Because of this, I had social difficulties in elementary school.  I remember hardly speaking in class and not playing any recess games unless invited. I recall playing tetherball mostly by myself and observing the children with longing eyes. In the sixth grade, my social life began to change; I met my best friend, Luz. We fostered a tight-knit bond immediately, and my confidence developed little by little each day. As each year passed, I acquired more confidence to become more sociable, but my awkwardness did not completely go away.

My earlier language barrier, my soft-hearted and quiet personality, and my social self-consciousness found me drawn to playing with girls and not sports with the other boys. I soon began to feel excluded by boys asking me why I played with girls; it made me feel small and different from the rest. Looking back, I have never been the “masculine boy” as society says my role to be. I have always thought I do not fit the social definition of a male as one who is “manly” and “sporty” and this alienating feeling of being different still persists today at times. However, I also have become more comfortable with myself, and I see my growth firsthand throughout high school.

In my freshman year I began to come out of my shell and develop self-confidence, largely due to my participation in choir and drama class. In these classes I could be myself and found my real voice. Here I felt a connection to a family not connected by blood but by a unifying passion in the creative arts.  That connection allowed me to confide in my friend Luz my struggle with my personal identity. One day I messaged her: “I have something to tell you… I think I might be bisexual.” My heart pounded as I waited anxiously for her reply. She responded: “How long have you been thinking of this?”  In her response I felt reassured that the she would not reject me.  From that moment my best friend thanked me and said our friendship was now stronger as a result. I felt so relieved to get that secret off my chest; it was a cathartic moment in my life and a significant turning point!

Throughout high school, I have become more open about who I am, and my confidence and acceptance in myself has grown tremendously. Although I still have not told my parents about my sexuality, I will when I am ready.  I am who I am today as a result of these experiences and personal challenges. In my short life so far, I have developed my soft-hearted and quiet personality to become more open, creative, and self-assured while preserving my identity. I know more challenges lie ahead, but I am open to those opportunities.

During my freshman year at Cajon High School, I enlisted in the California Cadet Corps (CACC). The CACC is essentially a JROTC program based on a state level. Every summer, the CACC holds a summer encampment at Camp San Luis Obispo. A myriad of leadership schools are offered: Non-Commissioned Officer (NCO) School, Officer-Candidate School (OCS), etc. I participated in OCS my freshman year, Survival my sophomore year, and Marksmanship last summer. Of those three, Survival was definitely my biggest challenge and marked my transition from childhood to adulthood.

Within the CACC, there’s an honor so admirable that those who receive it are inducted into an order of elites: the Red Beret. It signifies completion of survival training, the most rigorous and difficult training course within the CACC. With a heart mixed with excitement and fear, I stepped onto the bus headed for Camp San Luis Obispo in June of 2015.

After basic instruction, we were transported to arid Camp Roberts to begin field training. Upon arrival, we were separated into groups of four with one leader each (I was designated as team leader). We then emptied our canteens, received minimal tools, and set off. Our immediate priority was finding areas to build our shelter and latrine. Then, we needed to locate a clean source of water. After, we had to find food. It was truly a situation that required making everything from scratch. As the day drew to a close and night advanced, I felt seclusion and apprehension envelop me.

As the days drew on, constant stress and heat along with lack of food took a toll on my sanity and drove me almost to my breaking-point. At one moment, I remembered a handwritten phrase that had been on my desk: “Your biggest enemy is yourself.” At this moment, it hit me: I wasn’t going to quit. I was going to overcome this challenge and show myself that I have what it takes to survive for five days using nothing but my wits.

On the morning of the sixth day, my team and I reported to headquarters to complete training. With pride, I received the honor of wearing that glorious Red Beret on my head.

Through Survival, I learned many things about myself and the way I approach the world. I realized that I take for granted innumerable small privileges and conveniences and that I undervalue what I do have. Now that I had experienced true and sustained hunger, I felt regret for times when I threw away food and behaved with unconscious waste. Additionally, being isolated from mass civilization and relying heavily on my companions gave me an appreciation for my friends and for the absolute necessity of teamwork. Being the leader of my team meant that they all looked to me for motivation, inspiration, and a will to survive; I got first-hand experience on how important a leader can be in a situation of literal life and death. Most importantly, however, I gained priceless insight into the amount of effort and work my parents put in for me every day.

As demonstrated, survival training taught me essential lessons to survive successfully as an adult. Looking back, it’s absolutely unbelievable how one week affected me so profoundly. Even today, I remember the phrase that motivated me that day: “Your biggest enemy is yourself.” Thinking of that, I go to school and say to myself, “Justin, you truly are an amazing young man!”

The squeaks of whiteboard markers have now replaced the scritch-scratch of chalk, but the hubbub of voices is always the same. For millennia, the great thinkers of their day would gather and discuss. In ancient Greece, it was Socrates debating about philosophy; centuries later it was Newton lecturing at Cambridge on fluxions and physics. This summer Paul Steinhardt and his eminent colleagues sat down for a panel about inflationary theory at the World Science festival- though there was neither chalk nor markers there. Though we make no claim to be the greatest thinkers of our day and our school in no way resembles the hallowed edifices of science, my friends and I have staked out a corner of our AP Calculus room where we can have our own discussions. We even have a whiteboard.

It started small: just myself, Avery, and Sam and a problem set that didn’t take us long enough. Appropriately enough, we were working on one of Newton’s problems: differential equations describing cooling curves. His solution is fairly simple, perhaps overly simple, which prompted me to ask Avery what he thought. We had both taken Chemistry the year before, and Newton’s equation didn’t take into account thermal equilibrium; (to be fair to Newton, adding thermal equilibrium doesn’t appreciably change the solution at normal conditions). Since we were slightly bored and faced with an empty hour ahead of us, we started to modify the equation. We had learned in Chemistry that both the surroundings and the actual cooling object both change temperature, which Newton had ignored. We wrote up a first attempt on the infamous whiteboard, paused a second, and then started laughing as we realized that our inchoate equation meant a hot cup of coffee could plummet Earth into another Ice Age. This disturbance in an otherwise fairly quiet classroom drew the attention of Sam. He too was amused with our attempt and together we began to fix the poor thing. Huddled around the back of the classroom, we all pondered. It wasn’t an important problem, it wasn’t due the next day, it wasn’t even particularly interesting. But we loved it.

The three of us had been friends since middle school, which in many ways seems astounding. Avery, a track runner, Sam, a Morris dancer, and myself, a fencer. Our interests could not be more diverse. Avery was an avid programmer while Sam was fascinated by the evolution of language. I always had a soft spot for physics. Luckily for us, we had found each other early on in middle school and our discussions started soon after. As we learned more math, read more books, and culled more esoteric facts from our varied experiences, the quality of our rebuttals has dramatically improved. The laughter is immutable.

In the back of algebra class in eighth grade, Avery taught me how to program calculators in TIBasic while I traded theories with him about the Big Bang. From Sam I learned the phonetic alphabet and more recently the physics of bell ringing. Since then our dynamic has always stayed playful no matter how heated the discussion; only our arguments have changed. I may have learned as much in the back of classes with my friends as I learned from my teachers. Joseph Joubert wrote, “To teach is to learn twice,” and I could not agree more. In the myriad hours Avery, Sam, and I spent together, the neuron-firing was palpable, the exuberance impossible to miss.

But not only did I learn linguistics, Python, and philosophy with Avery and Sam, I learned a little more about myself. I never want to lose what we had in that corner. Our interplay of guessing and discovering and laughing seemed like paradise to me. I looked for other opportunities in my life to meet brilliant and vivacious people, to learn from them, and to teach them what I loved. I co-founded a tutoring program, participated in original research, and taught lessons in Physics and Chemistry as a substitute.

I expected to be nervous, I expected to embarrass myself. Yet on every occasion, whether I’m facing the board or with my back to it, whether I’m in the ranks of my peers or addressing my teachers, I feel the same elation. In my friends I see Socrates, Newton, and Steinhardt. There’s no place I would rather be than in their company.

For as long as I can remember, wrestling has been an important part of my life. I can recall playing dodgeball after wrestling practice, summer wrestling camps, hard practices with my older brother, and hundreds of wrestling tournaments as cornerstones of my childhood. From a young age I was determined to be the best; and quickly concluded that meant winning a PIAA state championship. When I entered Junior High, I discovered that only ten wrestlers in the history of Pennsylvania had won a state championship each year of their high school careers – and becoming the eleventh became my personal ambition.

Entering high school, I centered my life around the goal of winning a state title my freshman year. I became disciplined in every aspect of my life: from how many hours of sleep I got, to what exact foods I ate. I was obsessed with my intensive training regimen, and fell asleep each night to the dream of my hand being raised in the circle of the main mat on the Giant Center floor.

As the season progressed, I experienced success. My state ranking climbed steadily and by the time the state tournament began, I was projected to finish third. I wrestled well throughout the tournament, advancing to the semifinals where I defeated the favorite 11-0. At last: I was to wrestle in the final match for the state championship. I prepared for my opponent, whom I defeated the week before. However, when the match began, I wrestled nervously, was unable to fully recover, and ended up on the short end of a 3-1 decision.

In just a few short minutes, my dream was shattered. For me, it felt like the end of the world. I had based my whole identity and lifestyle on the dream of winning four state titles. It felt as though the sport I loved most had ripped out my heart,  and on live television, in front of thousands of people. I was upset after the match.  I was depressed and felt worthless, devoid of my passion for and love of wrestling.

After a month or perhaps more of introspection, and some in depth conversations with the people closest to me, I began to realize that one lost wrestling match, at age fifteen, was not the end of the world. The more I reflected on my wrestling journey, the more gratitude I developed for all of my opportunities.   I realized that wrestling had helped forge some of the most important relationships of my life, including an irreplaceable fraternity with my older brother, teammates, and coaches. My setback in the state finals also helped me to understand all of the lessons learned through wrestling, and that there was much more I could still accomplish. Wrestling helped me learn the value of hard work, discipline, and mental toughness. But most important, I learned that no matter how much we try, we cannot control everything, including the outcome of a wrestling match. We cannot control what happens to us, but we can control our reaction, attitude, actions, and effort. In the words of my father, “it is the effort that counts, not the result.”

Hence, through my experience of failure I learned an invaluable lesson applicable to every walk of life. In retrospect, I am grateful for the opportunity to compete, to represent myself and my school, and to lay all my hard work on the line. The process of striving to become a state champion taught me more than achieving this title ever could, and my failure in the state finals was a blessing in disguise.

Establishing a cohesive society where common values are shared is increasingly difficult in multi-faith, globalised societies such as the one I’m part of in the UK. My studies in politics and philosophy have made me more sensitive to this problem and as I have a much larger number of friends from different ethnic backgrounds than my parents and the previous generation, I realise that the friction created by the presence of different ethnic and social groups is not going to disappear anytime soon.

Admittedly, the problem of social integration is one I feel can be widely overstated – for example, when I was looking into some research for a similar topic a couple of years ago, I found numerous surveys indicating that ethnic minorities (especially Islam) identify much more closely with Britain than do the population at large. Still though, I, like many others, find myself constantly troubled by the prospect of the war from within that seems to be developing. This fear is fuelled by events such as the brutal killing of the soldier Lee Rigby at the hands of two British Muslims a couple of years ago.

This cold blooded murder provides a clear example of what can happen when people lose their human connection to the society that they’re a part of and instead pursue hate and violence on a pretence to a higher purpose (killing in the name of religion). I think suggestible minds are undoubtedly most prone to this, and the two British men who killed Rigby, previously Christians, are examples of how minds devoid of any instilled social values are fertile ground for the fomentation of harmful ideas.

What I find particularly worrying is the distinct danger of allowing a largely atomised society to develop, where conflicts such as this one begin to characterise the interaction between the different parts. It’s imperative that we avoid this situation and work towards social unity, and so I think a long-term and complex solution to social integration must be found. Given the upward trends in multiculturalism and globalisation, it is going to be paramount that my generation takes on the problems of integration and cultural diversity to create a harmonious society.

The solution will no doubt be an ongoing process, involving years of detailed and thoroughly considered legislation, but I think that in working towards it, we should focus on certain things.

With regard to the role of religion, I think its relationship with the state needs to be clarified and communicated to everyone. As the case of Lee Rigby quite bluntly reveals, where religion triumphs over civic duty, there’s a potentially dangerous situation, especially when put into the context of radical fundamentalism. By the same token however, it’s neither desirable nor feasible to have a society where politics trumps religion, so I think that when addressing the issue of social cohesion there must be an overarching commitment to other people within society that’s established – humanity must transcend any form of politics or ideology, and bind the two camps so their incompatibility does not become entrenched.

I think that this has to be done primarily through education: both within the formal curriculum which all citizens of a democratic nation state should be compelled to follow until at least the age of 16, and in the wider sense through more promotion of cultural programmes nationally that encourage the nation’s population to participate in the continuing discussion and examination of our core, shared values. We have to work at this constantly since identity is itself always in a state of flux and accept that this continuing ‘conversation’ will always require us to confront some very difficult questions about freedom and responsibility. People need to understand these ideas not simply as abstract questions, but also as issues of practical, pragmatic relevance, deconstructing them into how we actually treat each other, the true test of how civilised and tolerant we are.

I hate the letter “S”. Of the 164,777 words with “S”, I only grapple with one. To condemn an entire letter because of its use 0.0006% of the time sounds statistically absurd, but that one case changed 100% of my life. I used to have two parents, but now I have one, and the “S” in “parents” isn’t going anywhere.

“S” follows me. I can’t get through a day without being reminded that while my friends went out to dinner with their parents, I ate with my parent. As I write this essay, there is a blue line under the word “parent” telling me to check my grammar; even Grammarly assumes that I should have parents, but cancer doesn’t listen to edit suggestions. I won’t claim that my situation is as unique as 1 in 164,777, but it is still an exception to the rule - an outlier. The world isn’t meant for this special case.

The world wouldn’t abandon “S” because of me, so I tried to abandon “S”. I could get away from “S” if I stayed busy; you can’t have dinner with your “parent” (thanks again, Grammarly) if you’re too busy to have family dinner. Any spare time that I had, I filled. I became known as the “busy kid”- the one that everyone always asks, “How do you have time?” Morning meetings, classes, after school meetings, volleyball practice, dance class, rehearsal in Boston, homework, sleep, repeat. Though my specific schedule has changed over time, the busyness has not. I couldn’t fill the loss that “S” left in my life, but I could at least make sure I didn’t have to think about it. There were so many things in my life that I couldn’t control, so I controlled what I could- my schedule. I never succumbed to the stress of potentially over-committing. I thrived. It became a challenge to juggle it all, but I’d soon find a rhythm. But rhythm wasn’t what I wanted. Rhythm may not have an “S”, but “S” sure liked to come by when I was idle. So, I added another ball, and another, and another. Soon I noticed that the same “color” balls kept falling into my hands- theater, academics, politics. I began to want to come into contact with these more and more, so I further narrowed the scope of my color wheel and increased the shades of my primary colors.

Life became easier to juggle, but for the first time, I didn’t add another ball. I found my rhythm, and I embraced it. I stopped running away from a single “S” and began chasing a double “S”- passion. Passion has given me purpose. I was shackled to “S” as I tried to escape the confines of the traditional familial structure. No matter how far I ran, “S” stayed behind me because I kept looking back. I’ve finally learned to move forward instead of away, and it is liberating. “S” got me moving, but it hasn’t kept me going.

I wish I could end here, triumphant and basking in my new inspiration, but life is more convoluted. Motivation is a double edged sword; it keeps me facing forward, but it also keeps me from having to look back. I want to claim that I showed courage in being able to turn from “S”, but I cannot. Motivation is what keeps “S” at bay. I am not perfectly healed, but I am perfect at navigating the best way to heal me. I don’t seek out sadness, so “S” must stay on the sidelines, and until I am completely ready, motivation is more than enough for me.

“Ella, what did you think of Douglass’s view on Christianity?” I gulped. Increasingly powerful palpitations throbbed in my heart as my eyes darted around the classroom – searching for a profound response to Dr. Franklin’s question. I took a deep breath while reaching the most genuine answer I could conjure.

“Professor, I don’t know.”

Dr. Franklin stared at me blankly as he attempted to interpret the thoughts I didn’t voice. My lack of familiarity with the assigned text wasn’t a consideration that crossed his mind because he was familiar with my past contributions to class discussions. I was a fervent critic of the corrupted culture behind Christianity of the Puritans in Hawthorne’s “Young Goodman Brown” and modern evangelicals involved in the puzzling divinity of Donald Trump. He arched his flummoxed brows as he began to open his mouth.

“Professor, what I mean is that I’m not sure whether or not I even have a say on Douglass’s statements on Christianity in his Narrative of the Life.”

In class, I often separated the culture of Christianity from the religion. To tie these immensely disparate concepts as one and coin it as Christianity would present fallacies that contradict with the Christianity I knew. Lack of tolerance and hostility were products of humans’ sinful nature – not the teachings of Christ. People were just using Christianity as an excuse to exalt themselves rather than the holy name of Jesus. These were the “facts.”

My greatest realization came when Douglass declared Christian slave-holders as the worst slave-holders he ever met because of their deceptive feign of piety and use of Christianity to justify the oppression of their slaves. I realized that I couldn’t bring myself to raise the same argument that I used to convince myself that my Christianity of love was the only true Christianity. To Douglass, Christianity was the opposite. I didn’t want to dismiss his story. People use this sacred religion to spread hatred, and to many, this is the only Christianity they know. Their experiences aren’t any bit falser than mine.

Christianity isn’t the only culture that harbors truth that transcends the “facts.” America’s less of a perfect amalgamation of different ethnic cultures and more of a society severed by tribal conflicts rooted in the long established political culture of the nation. Issues such as racism, white privilege, and gender disparity are highly salient topics of current political discussion. However, during a time when people can use online platforms with algorithms that provide content they want to see, we fail to acknowledge the truth in other people’s experiences and express empathy.

As a Korean-American in the South, I am no stranger to intolerance. I remember the countless instances of people mocking my parents for their English pronunciation and my brother’s stutter. Because their words were less eloquent, people deemed their thoughts as less valuable as well. I protect my family and translate their words whenever they have a doctor’s appointment or need more ketchup at McDonald’s. My protective nature drives my desire to connect with different people and build understanding. To do so, however, I step outside my Korean American Southern Baptist paradigm because my experiences do not constitute everyone else’s.

Excluded from the Manichaean narrative of this country, I observe the turmoil in our nation through a separate lens - a blessing and a curse. Not only do I find myself awkwardly fixed in a black vs. white America, but I also fail to define my identity sandwiched between Korean and American. In the end, I find myself stuck amongst the conventional labels and binaries that divide America.

“You seem to work harder than most to understand other people’s points of view,” Dr. Franklin said after I shared these thoughts to the class.

“I find this easier because I spent my childhood assuming that my culture was always the exception,” I replied. As an anomaly, accepting different truths is

When I was a child, I begged my parents for my very own Brother PT-1400 P-Touch Handheld Label Maker to fulfill all of my labeling needs. Other kids had Nintendos and would spend their free time with Mario and Luigi. While they pummeled their video game controllers furiously, the pads of their thumbs dancing across their joysticks, I would type out labels on my industrial-standard P-Touch with just as much zeal. I labeled everything imaginable, dividing hundreds of pens into Ziploc bags by color, then rubber-banding them by point size. The finishing touch, of course, was always a glossy, three-eighths-inch-wide tag, freshly churned out from my handheld labeler and decisively pasted upon the numerous plastic bags I had successfully compiled.

Labeling became therapeutic for me; organizing my surroundings into specific groups to be labeled provides me with a sense of stability. I may not physically need the shiny color-coded label verifying the contents of a plastic bag as BLUE HIGHLIGHTERS—FAT, to identify them as such, but seeing these classifications so plainly allows me to appreciate the reliability of my categorizations. There are no exceptions when I label the top ledge of my bookshelf as containing works from ACHEBE, CHINUA TO CONRAD, JOSEPH. Each book is either filtered into that category or placed definitively into another one. Yet, such consistency only exists in these inanimate objects.

Thus, the break in my role as a labeler comes when I interact with people. Their lives are too complicated, their personalities too intricate for me to resolutely summarize in a few words or even with the 26.2 feet of laminated adhesive tape compatible with my label maker. I have learned that a thin line exists between labeling and just being judgmental when evaluating individuals. I can hardly superficially characterize others as simply as I do my material possessions because people refuse to be so cleanly separated and compartmentalized. My sister Joyce jokes freely and talks with me for hours about everything from the disturbing popularity of vampires in pop culture to cubic watermelons, yet those who don’t know her well usually think of her as timid and introverted. My mother is sometimes my biggest supporter, spouting words of encouragement and, at other instances, my most unrelenting critic. The overlap becomes too indistinct, the contradictions too apparent, even as I attempt to classify those people in the world whom I know best.

Neither would I want others to be predictable enough for me to label. The real joy in human interaction lies in the excitement of the unknown. Overturning expectations can be necessary to preserving the vitality of relationships. If I were never surprised by the behaviors of those around me, my biggest source of entertainment would vanish. For all my love of order when it comes to my room, I don’t want myself, or the people with whom I interact, to fit squarely into any one category. I meticulously follow directions to the millimeter in the chemistry lab but measure ingredients by pinches and dashes in the comfort of my kitchen. I’m a self-proclaimed grammar Nazi, but I’ll admit e. e. cummings’s irreverence does appeal. I’ll chart my television show schedule on Excel, but I would never dream of confronting my chores with as much organization. I even call myself a labeler, but not when it comes to people. As Walt Whitman might put it, “Do I contradict myself? / Very well, then I contradict myself, / (I am large, I contain multitudes.).”

I therefore refrain from the temptation to label—despite it being an act that makes me feel so fulfilled when applied to physical objects—when real people are the subjects. The consequences of premature labeling are too great, the risk of inaccuracy too high because, most of the time, not even the hundreds of alphanumeric digits and symbols available for entry on my P-Touch can effectively describe who an individual really is.

I have a fetish for writing.

I’m not talking about crafting prose or verses, or even sentences out of words. But simply constructing letters and characters from strokes of ink gives me immense satisfaction. It’s not quite calligraphy, as I don’t use calligraphic pens or Chinese writing brushes; I prefer it simple, spontaneous, and subconscious. I often find myself crafting characters in the margins of notebooks with a fifty-cent pencil, or tracing letters out of thin air with anything from chopsticks to fingertips.

The art of handwriting is a relic in the information era. Why write when one can type? Perhaps the Chinese had an answer before the advent of keyboards. “One’s handwriting,” said the ancient Chinese, “is a painting of one’s mind.” After all, when I practice my handwriting, I am crafting characters.

My character.

I particularly enjoy meticulously designing a character, stroke by stroke, and eventually building up, letter by letter, to a quote personalized in my own voice. Every movement of the pen and every drop­let of ink all lead to something profound, as if the arches of every "m" are doorways to revelations. After all, characters are the build­ing blocks of language, and language is the only vehicle through which knowledge unfolds. Thus, in a way, these letters under my pen are themselves representations of knowledge, and the delicate beauty of every letter proves, visually, the intrinsic beauty of know­ing. I suppose handwriting reminds me of my conviction in this vi­sual manner: through learning answers are found, lives enriched, and societies bettered.

Moreover, perhaps this strange passion in polishing every single character of a word delineates my dedication to learning, testifies my zeal for my conviction, and sketches a crucial stroke of my character.

"We--must--know ... " the mathematician David Hilbert's voice echoes in resolute cursive at the tip of my pen, as he, addressing German scientists in 1930, propounds the goal of modern intellectu­als. My pen firmly nods in agreement with Hilbert, while my mind again fumbles for the path to knowledge.

The versatility of handwriting enthralls me. The Chinese developed many styles -- called hands -- of writing. Fittingly, each hand seems to parallel one of my many academic interests. Characters of the Regular Hand (kai shu), a legible script, serve me well during many long hours when I scratch my head and try to prove a mathematical statement rigorously, as the legibility illuminates my logic on paper. Words of the Running Hand (xing shu), a semi-cursive script, are like the passionate words that I speak before a committee of Model United Nations delegates, propounding a decisive course of action: the words, both spoken and written, are swift and coherent but resolute and emphatic. And strokes of the Cursive Hand (cao shu) resemble those sudden artistic sparks when I deliver a line on stage: free spontaneous, but emphatic syllables travel through the lights like rivers of ink flowing on the page.

Yet the fact that the three distinctive hands cooperate so seamlessly, fusing together the glorious culture of writing, is perhaps a fable of learning, a testament that the many talents of the Renaissance Man could all be worthwhile for enriching human society. Such is my methodology: just like I organize my different hands into a neat personal style with my fetish for writing, I can unify my broad interests with my passion for learning.

“...We -- will -- know!” Hilbert finishes his adage, as I frantically slice an exclamation mark as the final stroke of this painting of my mind.

I must know: for knowing, like well-crafted letters, has an inherent beauty and an intrinsic value. I will know: for my versatile interests in academics will flow like my versatile styles of writing.

I must know and I will know: for my fetish for writing is a fetish for learning.

I had never seen houses floating down a river. Minutes before there had not even been a river. An immense wall of water was destroying everything in its wake, picking up fishing boats to smash them against buildings. It was the morning of March 11, 2011. Seeing the images of destruction wrought by the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, I felt as if something within myself was also being shaken, for I had just spent two of the happiest summers of my life there.

In the summer of my freshman year, I received the Kikkoman National Scholarship, which allowed me to travel to Japan to stay with a host family in Tokyo for ten weeks. I arrived just as the swine flu panic gripped the world, so I was not allowed to attend high school with my host brother, Yamato. Instead, I took Japanese language, judo, and karate classes and explored the confusing sprawl of the largest city in the world. I spent time with the old men of my neighborhood in the onsen, or hot spring, questioning them about the Japan of their youth. They laughed and told me that if I wanted to see for myself, I should work on a farm.

The next summer I returned to Japan, deciding to heed the old men’s advice and volunteer on a farm in Japan’s northernmost island, Hokkaido. I spent two weeks working more than fourteen hours a day. I held thirty-pound bags of garlic with one hand while trying to tie them to a rope hanging from the ceiling with the other, but couldn’t hold the bags in the air long enough. Other days were spent pulling up endless rows of daikon, or Japanese radish, which left rashes on my arms that itched for weeks. Completely exhausted, I stumbled back to the farmhouse, only to be greeted by the family’s young children who were eager to play. I passed out every night in a room too small for me to straighten my legs. One day, I overslept a lunch break by two hours. I awoke mortified, and hurried to the father. After I apologized in the most polite form of Japanese, his face broke into a broad grin. He patted me on the back and said, “You are a good worker, Anthony. There is no need to apologize.” This single exchange revealed the true spirit of the Japanese farmer. The family had lived for years in conditions that thoroughly wore me out in only a few days. I had missed two hours of work, yet they were still perpetually thankful to me. In their life of unbelievable hardship, they still found room for compassion.

When I had first gone to Tokyo, I had sought the soul of the nation among its skyscrapers and urban hot springs. The next summer I spurned the beaten track in an attempt to discover the true spirit of Japan. While lugging enormously heavy bags of garlic and picking daikon, I found that spirit. The farmers worked harder than anyone I have ever met, but they still made room in their hearts for me. So when the tsunami threatened the people to whom I owed so much, I had to act. Remembering the lesson of compassion I learned from the farm family, I started a fund-raiser in my community called “One Thousand Cranes for Japan.” Little more than two weeks later, we had raised over $8,000 and a flock of one thousand cranes was on its way to Japan.

I learned the definition of cancer at the age of fourteen. I was taking my chapter 7 biology test when I came upon the last question, “What is cancer?”, to which I answered: “The abnormal, unrestricted growth of cells.” After handing in the test, I moved on to chapter 8, oblivious then to how earth-shattering such a disease could be.

I learned the meaning of cancer two years later. A girl named Kiersten came into my family by way of my oldest brother who had fallen in love with her. I distinctly recall her hair catching the sea breeze as she walked with us along the Jersey shore, a blonde wave in my surrounding family's sea of brunette. Physically, she may have been different, but she redefined what family meant to me. She attended my concerts, went to my award ceremonies, and helped me study for tests. Whenever I needed support, she was there. Little did I know that our roles would be reversed, forever changing my outlook on life.

Kiersten was diagnosed with Stage II Hodgkin's lymphoma at the age of 22. Tears and hair fell alike after each of her 20 rounds of chemotherapy as we feared the worst. It was an unbearable tragedy watching someone so vivacious skirt the line between life and death. Her cancer was later classified as refractory, or resistant to treatment. Frustration and despair flooded my mind as I heard this news. And so I prayed. In what universe did this dynamic make any sense? I prayed to God and to even her cancer itself to just leave her alone. Eventually, Kiersten was able to leave the hospital to stay for six weeks at my home.

My family and I transformed the house into an antimicrobial sanctuary, protecting Kiersten from any outside illness. I watched TV with her, baked cookies for her, and observed her persistence as she regained strength and achieved remission. We beat biology, time, and death, all at the same time, with cookies, TV, and friendship. Yet I was so concerned with helping Kiersten that I had not realized how she helped me during her battle with cancer.

I had been so used to solving my problems intellectually that when it came time to emotionally support someone, I was afraid. I could define cancer, but what do I say to someone with it? There were days where I did not think I could be optimistic in the face of such adversity. But the beauty that resulted from sympathizing as opposed to analyzing and putting aside my own worries and troubles for someone else was an enormous epiphany for me. My problems dissipated into thin air the moment I came home and dropped my books and bags to talk with Kiersten. The more I talked, laughed, smiled, and shared memories with her, the more I began to realize all that she taught me. She influenced me in the fact that she demonstrated the power of loyalty, companionship, and optimism in the face of desperate, life-threatening situations. She showed me the importance of loving to live and living to love. Most of all, she gave me the insight necessary to fully help others not just with intellect and preparation, but with solidarity and compassion. In this way, I became able to help myself and others with not only my brain, but with my heart. And that, in the words of Robert Frost, “has made all the difference.”

I entered the surprisingly cool car. Since when is Beijing Line 13 air-conditioned? I’ll take it. At four o’clock in the afternoon only about twenty people were in the subway car. “At least it’s not crowded,” one might have thought. Wrong. The pressure of their eyes on me filled the car and smothered me.

”(Look, look! She’s a foreigner!) An old man very loudly whispered to a child curled up in his lap. “Foreigner,” he called me. I hate that word, “foreigner.” It only explains my exterior. If only they could look inside.…

They would know that I actually speak Chinese—not just speak, but love. They would know that this love was born from my first love of Latin—the language that fostered my admiration of all languages. Latin lives in the words we speak around the world today. And translating this ancient language is like watching a play and performing in it at the same time. Each word is an adventure, and on the journey through Virgil’s Aeneid I found that I am more like Aeneas than any living, dead, or fictional hero I know. We share the intrinsic value of loyalty to friends, family, and society. We stand true to our own word, and we uphold others to theirs. Like Aeneas’s trek to find a new settlement for his collapsed Troy, with similar perseverance I, too, wander the seas for my own place in the world. Language has helped me do that.

If these subway passengers understood me, they would know that the very reason I sat beside them was because of Latin. Even before Aeneas and his tale, I met Caecilius and Grumio, characters in my first Latin textbook. In translations I learned grammar alongside Rome’s rich history. I realized how learning another language could expose me to other worlds and other people—something that has always excited me. I also realized that if I wanted to know more about the world and the people in it, I would have to learn a spoken language. Spanish, despite the seven years of study prior to Latin, did not stick with me. And the throatiness of French was not appealing. But Chinese, more than these other traditional languages, intrigued me. The doors to new worlds it could open seemed endless. Thus I chose Chinese.

If these subway passengers looked inside me, they would find that my knowledge of both Latin and Chinese makes me feel whole. It feels like the world of the past is flowing through me alongside the world of the future. Thanks to Latin, Chinese sticks in my mind like the Velcro on the little boy’s shoes in front of me. If this little boy and his family and friends could look inside, they would understand that Latin laid the foundation for my lifelong commitment to languages. Without words, thoughts and actions would be lost in the space between our ears. To them, I am a foreigner, “外国人” literally translated as “out-of-country person.” I feel, however, more like an advena, the Latin word for “foreigner,” translated as “(one who) comes to (this place).” I came to this place, and I came to this country to stay. Unfortunately, they will not know this until I speak. Then once I speak, the doors will open.

When I failed math in my sophomore year of high school, a bitter dispute engulfed my household -- “Nicolas Yan vs. Mathematics.” I was the plaintiff, appearing pro se, while my father represented the defendant (inanimate as it was). My brother and sister constituted a rather understaffed jury, and my mother presided over the case as judge.

In a frightening departure from racial stereotype, I charged Mathematics with the capital offences of being “too difficult” and “irrelevant to my aspirations," citing my recent shortcomings in the subject as evi. dence. My father entered a not guilty plea on the defendant's behalf, for he had always harbored hopes that I would follow in his entrepreneurial footsteps -- and who ever heard of a businessman who wasn't an accomplished mathematician? He argued that because I had fallen sick before my examination and had been unable to sit one of the papers, it would be a travesty of justice to blame my "Ungraded” mark on his client. The judge nodded sagely.

With heartrending pathos, I recalled how I had studied A-Level Mathematics with calculus a year before the rest of my cohort, bravely grappling with such perverse concepts as the poisson distribution to no avail. I decried the subject's lack of real-life utility and lamented my inability to reconcile further effort with any plausible success; so that to persist with Mathematics would be a Sisyphean endeavor. Since I had no interest in becoming the entrepreneur that my father envisioned, I petitioned the court for academic refuge in the humanities. The members of the jury exchanged sympathetic glances and put their heads together to deliberate.

In hushed tones, they weighed the particulars of the case. Then, my sister announced their unanimous decision with magisterial gravity: "Nicolas shouldn't have to do math if he doesn't want to!" I was ecstatic; my father distraught. With a bang of her metaphorical gavel, the judge sentenced the defendant to "Death by Omission"-- and so I chose my subjects for 11th Grade sans Mathematics. To my father's disappointment, a future in business for me now seemed implausible.

Over the next year, however, new evidence that threw the court's initial verdict into question surfaced. Languishing on death row, Mathematics exercised its right to appeal, and so our quasi-court reconvened in the living room.

My father reiterated his client's innocence, maintaining that Mathematics was neither "irrelevant" nor "too difficult." He proudly recounted how just two months earlier, when my friends had convinced me to join them in creating a business case competition for high school students (clerical note: the loftily-titled New Zealand Secondary Schools Case Competition), I stood in front of the Board of a company and successfully pitched them to sponsor us-- was this not evidence that l could succeed in business? I think I saw a tear roll down his cheek as he implored me to give Mathematics another chance.

I considered the truth of his words. While writing a real-world business case for NZSSCC, l had been struck by how mathematical processes actually made sense when deployed in a practical context, and how numbers could tell a story just as vividly as words can. By reviewing business models and comparing financial projections to actual returns, one can read a company's story and identify areas of potential growth; whether the company then took advantage of these opportunities determined its success. It wasn't that my role in organizing NZSSCC had magically taught me to embrace all things mathematical or commercial -- I was still the same person -- but I recognized that no intellectual constraints prevented me from succeeding in Mathematics; I needed only the courage to seize an opportunity for personal growth.

I stood up and addressed my family: “I’ll do it.” Then, without waiting for the court’s final verdict, I crossed the room to embrace my father: and the rest, as they (seldom) say, was Mathematics.

The best compliment I ever received was from my little brother: “My science teacher’s unbelievably good at telling stories,” he announced. “Nearly as good as you.” I thought about that, how I savor a good story the way some people savor last-minute touchdowns.

I learned in biology that I’m composed of 7 × 10 27 atoms, but that number didn’t mean anything to me until I read Bill Bryson’s A Short History of Nearly Everything. One sentence stayed with me for weeks: “Every atom you possess has almost certainly passed through several stars and been part of millions of organisms on its way to becoming you.” It estimates that each human has about 2 billion atoms of Shakespeare hanging around inside—quite a comfort, as I try to write this essay. I thought about every one of my atoms, wondering where they had been and what miracles they had witnessed.

My physical body is a string of atoms, but what of my inner self, my soul, my essence? I’ve come to the realization that my life has been a string as well, a string of stories. Every one of us is made of star stuff, forged through fires, and emerging as nicked as the surface of the moon. It frustrated me no end that I couldn’t sit down with all the people I met, interrogating them about their lives, identifying every last story that made them who they are.

I remember how magical it was the first time I read a fiction book: Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone. I was duly impressed with Quidditch and the Invisibility Cloak, of course, but I was absolutely spellbound by how much I could learn about Harry. The kippers he had for breakfast, the supplies he bought for Potions—the details everyone skimmed over were remarkable to me. Fiction was a revelation. Here, at last, was a window into another person’s string of stories!

Over the years, I’ve thought long and hard about that immortal question: What superpower would you choose? I considered the usual suspects—invisibility, superhuman strength, flying—but threw them out immediately. My superhero alter ego would be Story Girl. She wouldn’t run marathons, but she could walk for miles and miles in other people’s shoes. She’d know that all it takes for empathy and understanding is the right story.

Imagine my astonishment when I discovered Radiolab on NPR. Here was my imaginary superpower, embodied in real life! I had been struggling with AP Biology, seeing it as a class full of complicated processes and alien vocabulary. That changed radically when I listened, enthralled, as Radiolab traced the effects of dopamine on love and gambling. This was science, sure, but it was science as I’d never heard it before. It contained conflict and emotion and a narrative; it made me anxious to learn more. It wasn’t that I was obtuse for biology; I just hadn’t found the stories in it before.

I’m convinced that you can learn anything in the form of a story. The layperson often writes off concepts—entropy, the Maginot Line, anapestic meter—as too foreign to comprehend. But with the right framing, the world suddenly becomes an open book, enticing and ripe for exploration. I want to become a writer to find those stories, much like Jad Abumrad and Robert Krulwich from Radiolab, making intimidating subjects become familiar and inviting for everyone. I want to become Story Girl.

"Paint this vase before you leave today," my teacher directed as she placed foreign brushes and paints in my hands. I looked at her blankly. Where were the charts of colors and books of techniques? Why was her smile so decidedly encouraging? The sudden expectations made no sense.

She smiled. "Don't worry, just paint."

In a daze, I assembled my supplies the way the older students did. I was scared. I knew everything but nothing. And even in those first blissful moments of experimentation, it hurt to realize that my painting was all wrong. The gleam of light. The distorted reflection. A thousand details taunted me with their refusal to melt into the glass. The vase was lifeless at best.

As the draining hours of work wore on, I began wearing reckless holes in my mixing plate. It was my fourth hour here. Why had I not received even a single piece of guidance?

At the peak of my frustration, she finally reentered the studio, yawning with excruciating casualness. I felt myself snap.

"I barely know how to hold a brush," I muttered almost aggressively, "how could I possibly have the technique to paint this?"

She looked at me with a shocked innocence that only heightened the feeling of abandonment. "What do you mean you don't have the technique?"

It was as though she failed to realize I was a complete beginner.

And then suddenly she broke into a pitch of urgent obviousness: "What are you doing! Don't you see those details?? There's orange from the wall and light brown from the floor. There's even dark green from that paint box over there. You have to look at the whole picture," she stole a glance at my face of bewilderment, and, sighing, grabbed my paint,stained hand. "Listen, it's not in here," she implored, shaking my captive limb. "It's here." The intensity with which she looked into my eyes was overwhelming.

I returned the gaze emptily. Never had I been so confused…

But over the years I did begin to see. The shades of red and blue in gray concrete, the tints of Phthalo in summer skies, and winter’s Currelean. It was beautiful and illogical. Black was darker with green and red, and white was never white.

I began to study animals. The proportions and fan brush techniques were certainly difficult, but they were the simple part. It was the strategic tints of light and bold color that created life. I would spend hours discovering the exact blue that would make a fish seem on the verge of tears and hours more shaping a deer’s ears to speak of serenity instead of danger.

In return for probing into previously ignored details, my canvas and paints opened the world. I began to appreciate the pink kiss of ever-evolving sunsets and the even suppression of melancholy. When my father came home from a business trip, it was no longer a matter of simple happiness, but of fatigue and gladness' underlying shades. The personalities who had once seemed so annoyingly arrogant now turned soft with their complexities of doubt and inspiration. Each mundane scene is as deep and varied as the paint needed to capture it.

One day, I will learn to paint people. As I run faster into the heart of art and my love for politics and law, I will learn to see the faces behind each page of cold policy text, the amazing innovation sketched in the tattered Constitution, and the progressiveness living in oak-paneled courts.

It won’t be too far. I know that in a few years I will see a thousand more colors than I do today. Yet the most beautiful part about art is that there is no end. No matter how deep I penetrate its shimmering realms, the enigmatic caverns of wonder will stay.

till it dealt, not with rooms and views, but with—well, with something
quite different, whose existence she had not realized before. Now the
old man attacked Miss Bartlett almost violently: Why should she not
change? What possible objection had she? They would clear out in half
an hour.

Miss Bartlett, though skilled in the delicacies of conversation, was
powerless in the presence of brutality. It was impossible to snub any
one so gross. Her face reddened with displeasure. She looked around as
much as to say, “Are you all like this?” And two little old ladies, who
were sitting further up the table, with shawls hanging over the backs
of the chairs, looked back, clearly indicating “We are not; we are
genteel.”

“Eat your dinner, dear,” she said to Lucy, and began to toy again with
the meat that she had once censured.

Lucy mumbled that those seemed very odd people opposite.

“Eat your dinner, dear. This pension is a failure. To-morrow we will
make a change.”

Hardly had she announced this fell decision when she reversed it. The
curtains at the end of the room parted, and revealed a clergyman, stout
but attractive, who hurried forward to take his place at the table,
cheerfully apologizing for his lateness. Lucy, who had not yet acquired
decency, at once rose to her feet, exclaiming: “Oh, oh! Why, it’s Mr.
Beebe! Oh, how perfectly lovely! Oh, Charlotte, we must stop now,
however bad the rooms are. Oh!”

Miss Bartlett said, with more restraint:

“How do you do, Mr. Beebe? I expect that you have forgotten us: Miss
Bartlett and Miss Honeychurch, who were at Tunbridge Wells when you
helped the Vicar of St. Peter’s that very cold Easter.”

The clergyman, who had the air of one on a holiday, did not remember
the ladies quite as clearly as they remembered him. But he came forward
pleasantly enough and accepted the chair into which he was beckoned by
Lucy.

“I _am_ so glad to see you,” said the girl, who was in a state of
spiritual starvation, and would have been glad to see the waiter if her
cousin had permitted it. “Just fancy how small the world is. Summer
Street, too, makes it so specially funny.”

“Miss Honeychurch lives in the parish of Summer Street,” said Miss
Bartlett, filling up the gap, “and she happened to tell me in the
course of conversation that you have just accepted the living—”

“Yes, I heard from mother so last week. She didn’t know that I knew you
at Tunbridge Wells; but I wrote back at once, and I said: ‘Mr. Beebe
is—’”

“Quite right,” said the clergyman. “I move into the Rectory at Summer
Street next June. I am lucky to be appointed to such a charming
neighbourhood.”

“Oh, how glad I am! The name of our house is Windy Corner.” Mr. Beebe
bowed.

“There is mother and me generally, and my brother, though it’s not
often we get him to ch—— The church is rather far off, I mean.”

“Lucy, dearest, let Mr. Beebe eat his dinner.”

“I am eating it, thank you, and enjoying it.”

He preferred to talk to Lucy, whose playing he remembered, rather than
to Miss Bartlett, who probably remembered his sermons. He asked the
girl whether she knew Florence well, and was informed at some length
that she had never been there before. It is delightful to advise a
newcomer, and he was first in the field. “Don’t neglect the country
round,” his advice concluded. “The first fine afternoon drive up to
Fiesole, and round by Settignano, or something of that sort.”

“No!” cried a voice from the top of the table. “Mr. Beebe, you are
wrong. The first fine afternoon your ladies must go to Prato.”

“That lady looks so clever,” whispered Miss Bartlett to her cousin. “We
are in luck.”

And, indeed, a perfect torrent of information burst on them. People
told them what to see, when to see it, how to stop the electric trams,
how to get rid of the beggars, how much to give for a vellum blotter,
how much the place would grow upon them. The Pension Bertolini had
decided, almost enthusiastically, that they would do. Whichever way
they looked, kind ladies smiled and shouted at them. And above all rose
the voice of the clever lady, crying: “Prato! They must go to Prato.
That place is too sweetly squalid for words. I love it; I revel in
shaking off the trammels of respectability, as you know.”

The young man named George glanced at the clever lady, and then
returned moodily to his plate. Obviously he and his father did not do.
Lucy, in the midst of her success, found time to wish they did. It gave
her no extra pleasure that any one should be left in the cold; and when
she rose to go, she turned back and gave the two outsiders a nervous
little bow.

The father did not see it; the son acknowledged it, not by another bow,
but by raising his eyebrows and smiling; he seemed to be smiling across
something.

She hastened after her cousin, who had already disappeared through the
curtains—curtains which smote one in the face, and seemed heavy with
more than cloth. Beyond them stood the unreliable Signora, bowing
good-evening to her guests, and supported by ’Enery, her little boy,
and Victorier, her daughter. It made a curious little scene, this
attempt of the Cockney to convey the grace and geniality of the South.
And even more curious was the drawing-room, which attempted to rival
the solid comfort of a Bloomsbury boarding-house. Was this really
Italy?

Miss Bartlett was already seated on a tightly stuffed arm-chair, which
had the colour and the contours of a tomato. She was talking to Mr.
Beebe, and as she spoke, her long narrow head drove backwards and
forwards, slowly, regularly, as though she were demolishing some
invisible obstacle. “We are most grateful to you,” she was saying. “The
first evening means so much. When you arrived we were in for a
peculiarly _mauvais quart d’heure_.”

He expressed his regret.

“Do you, by any chance, know the name of an old man who sat opposite us
at dinner?”

“Emerson.”

“Is he a friend of yours?”

“We are friendly—as one is in pensions.”

“Then I will say no more.”

He pressed her very slightly, and she said more.

“I am, as it were,” she concluded, “the chaperon of my young cousin,
Lucy, and it would be a serious thing if I put her under an obligation
to people of whom we know nothing. His manner was somewhat unfortunate.
I hope I acted for the best.”

“You acted very naturally,” said he. He seemed thoughtful, and after a
few moments added: “All the same, I don’t think much harm would have
come of accepting.”

“No _harm_, of course. But we could not be under an obligation.”

“He is rather a peculiar man.” Again he hesitated, and then said
gently: “I think he would not take advantage of your acceptance, nor
expect you to show gratitude. He has the merit—if it is one—of saying
exactly what he means. He has rooms he does not value, and he thinks
you would value them. He no more thought of putting you under an
obligation than he thought of being polite. It is so difficult—at
least, I find it difficult—to understand people who speak the truth.”

Lucy was pleased, and said: “I was hoping that he was nice; I do so
always hope that people will be nice.”

“I think he is; nice and tiresome. I differ from him on almost every
point of any importance, and so, I expect—I may say I hope—you will
differ. But his is a type one disagrees with rather than deplores. When
he first came here he not unnaturally put people’s backs up. He has no
tact and no manners—I don’t mean by that that he has bad manners—and he
will not keep his opinions to himself. We nearly complained about him
to our depressing Signora, but I am glad to say we thought better of
it.”

The white yarn slipped off my aluminium crochet hook, adding a single crochet to rows and rows of existing stitches, that looked to be in the form of a blob. Staring at the image of the little unicorn amigurumi lit up on the screen of my laptop, and looking back at the UMO (unidentified messy object) number five, I was extremely perplexed.

This had seemed so easy. Round 1, construct a magic circle with 6 single crochets. Done. Round 2 was an increase round resulting in a total of 12 stitches. Also done. The remaining rounds were blurred into hours and minutes that should have resulted in a little white creature in the likeness of a unicorn, but sitting on my desk (much like the four days before today) was a pool of tangled white yarn. It was not until day seven that a creature with a lopsided head whose horn was the only identifier of the mythical being emerged.

Very much like learning how to crochet, my journey in forging my own path and finding a passion was confusing, messy and at times infuriating. Even in primary school, I had heard all the stories of individuals finding their own route in life. I had been told stories of those who found their passion at a young age and were exceptionally proficient at their craft, of those that abandoned their interests and pursued a lucrative career, even those who chose their dreams but regretted it afterwards. This weighed heavily on me, as I was determined to have a success story as many of my other family members had. The only problem was that I did not have a direction.

In the years following primary school, I stepped out of my comfort zone in a frenzy to find a passion. I joined the school orchestra where I played the violin, and a debate class to practice public speaking and become much more eloquent. At my ballet school, I branched out to contemporary and jazz dance. I stuffed myself with experience similar to an amigurumi engorged with batting. I found myself enjoying all of those activities but soon enough, I was swamped with extracurriculars. Just like the tangles of white yarn on my desk, I was pulled in all directions. I still felt lost. To make things worse, it seemed as if everyone else had found their path in life, and they had all become white unicorns while I was still doubting the stitch I just made.

It was not until high school that I realised that I could view this mission to find a passion from another perspective. While successfully completing a crochet project is an accomplishment itself, the motions of making slip knots, single or double crochets takes you on an adventure as well. The knots that I had encountered in my craft were evidence of my experiences and what shaped me as an individual. My exploration of various paths through detours may have sometimes resulted in roadblocks, but I continued to persevere and learn from my experiences, applying the skills that I have gained to future knots. The mini adventures that I went on were all crucial to me in the greater journey of life.

Through trial and error, the current adventure that I am on resonates the most with me, taking me down the path of service and environmental activism. However, I have learnt that no one path is static, and I can be on more than one path at a time. While I may only be halfway to the proportionate unicorn amigurumi that some others may have already achieved, I still have so much to learn and so much that I want to learn, and so my journey to grow continues.

If you told me I would be playing a sport called squash at 11 years old, I would call you crazy. But in seventh grade, I was at a new school 10 times bigger than my last one. I felt like a little fish in a big pond. I was quiet, withdrawn, and very introverted. A lot of the time, I stayed where I was comfortable.

During the first week of school, a group of people visited the school and they introduced themselves as Squashbusters. At that time, I’d only heard of Squash once before, but I didn’t really know what it was. Because the program combined the sport of squash with academic support, mentoring, and service opportunities, I decided to sign up. It’s been six years and this program has made a monumental difference in my life.

Being a part of SquashBusters is a program that really pushed me out of my shell to the point where I’ve grown accustomed to challenging myself. In SquashBusters, they tell us to push ourselves past our limits on the squash courts, but that mindset has transferred to other areas of my life as well. From team trips and tournaments to cringy karaoke moments and participating in eccentric traditions like our annual SquashBusters Olympics, my comfort zone has steadily grown larger. My peers brought out a side of me I didn’t even know existed. I haven’t transformed completely from introvert to extrovert, but I’ve become more social as the years go by.

At Hopkins, I want to do something similar. I want to try new things and embrace the campus traditions. Even though I will develop intellectually from the many academic classes and clubs/activities offered on campus, I feel as though a true community is birthed from exploring beyond what one’s used to. From traditions like Blue Jay Opening Day and the Spring Fair to the many world-changing clubs like the Amnesty International club and the Foreign Affairs Symposium, the different ways to be involved in the Hopkins community is limitless and invigorating and I can’t wait to be a part of the Hopkins family.

“Bring the ace of spades up,” my Grandmother said as we started our first game of solitaire after I got home from school. “Now, put the black eight onto the red nine.” We played solitaire often, working together to reorganize the cards most efficiently. While it was meant to be a single-player game, solitaire was the one thing we did together, moving and dealing the cards in a symphony of order: red to black, red to black. Pulling the pattern out of the random array of cards.

For hours, we sat at our glossy kitchen table, playing game after game. If there were no more moves to make, I would always sneak a card from below a column without my grandma seeing. She always did. I couldn’t understand- What was the big deal of revealing the cards? We might win one out of ten games played. But if we just ‘helped ourselves,’ as I liked to call it, we could win them all. I didn’t understand her adherence to the “Turn Three” rule. Why not just turn the cards one by one? It was too frustrating to see the cards go by, but turn exactly three and not be able to pick them up! After one game we lost, I asked my grandma, “Why do we play this way? There’s a much better way to play.” In response, she quickly explained her adamancy to the rules, what before had made no sense to me.

Her polished fingernails scratched against the cards as she shuffled them and told me. “Solitaire isn’t just a game for one person.” Her deep brown eyes sharply glanced at me, “No.” It wasn’t just a game for one person, but rather for two sides of a person. It was an internal battle, a strengthening of the mind. One playing against oneself. “If one side of you cheats, how would either side get better?”

Red lipsticked lips slightly grinned as my grandma saw me trying to understand, but I didn’t agree with this thought at once. The cards rhythmically slapped down onto the table as my grandmother, small yet stoic, effortlessly moved the cards with frail hands. I watched her. I thought about any other way to understand this idea. I desperately wanted to. Trying to think, I couldn’t imagine another instance where this sense of tranquility, bringing the melody of organization out of a cacophony of random cards, came from such intense competition.

The slow manipulation of life around her precedent made me think back to my grandma, to what she told me, and made me understand. Two years later, pushing myself harder than I ever had before in a field hockey match, I realized how much I had been cheating myself and my team by not putting this effort in before. Four years later, I was helping my parents clean after dinner when I saw the value in not taking the easy way out. Five years later, I found once again the difficult ease in pottery. Lifting the pot off the wheel, I found satisfaction. Looking back, I hadn’t realized that this notion of self-accountability appears in almost every aspect of my life.

Seven columns. Four aces. Fifty-two cards. Laying these down, I’m brought back to playing solitaire with my grandmother. Through time, her inner spirit never crumbled as her body began to deteriorate. Her mind stayed strong and proud. I admired her for that more than she could’ve imagined. Each challenge I face, or will face, in life, I think back to her lesson one inconspicuous afternoon. Never let myself cheat. Always hold myself accountable. Work hard in every competition, especially the ones against myself, as those are the ones that better me the most. I did not understand what my grandmother meant that day. Now, with each day, I do more.

No, Dante. Stop, think, and look at the entire board.

I was thoroughly confused. I thought I had procured the complete solution to this elaborate chess puzzle. What am I missing? A knight fork, a bishop move? Am I in check? After a quick glance at the left side of the board, I slapped my hand on my head as I suddenly realized what my chess coach was telling me. My queen was sitting unused, positioned all the way on the other side of the board, and I had no idea. If I were to sacrifice my queen, the opposing rook would be forced to capture it, allowing me to finish the game in style with the illustrious “smothered mate.”

If you begin to look at the whole chessboard, then these puzzles will become a breeze for you.

Ever since that chess lesson, those words have stuck. Indeed, my chess skills improved swiftly as my rating flew over the 1000 Elo threshold in a matter of months. However, those words did not merely pertain to chess. Looking at the whole picture became a foundational skill that I have utilized throughout my life in school and other endeavors. I particularly remember making use of it on the soccer field.

Now, I’m no Arnold Schwarzenegger. Weighing in at a monstrous 125 pounds and standing 5 foot 8 inches, my opponents made it a habit to tackle me to the ground. Once again, I found myself face to face with the defender, and before I knew it, I crumbled to the ground, left isolated and dispossessed. Laying dazed on the pitch, my mind flashed back to the chessboard. It occurred to me that soccer, much like chess, relies on the proper position of the many pieces that combine to create a finished strategy. The “whole picture” of soccer is not just how fast or strong one is or how many tackles you put in; that is only one element of the puzzle. The intelligence and creativity needed in a playmaker is also an essential part of a well-rounded soccer team. I realized that my most significant advantage would always be my in-depth understanding of the game of soccer—where to pass the ball, when to make a run, if the ball should be in the air or driven. I picked myself off the ground, and when that same defender came barreling towards me again, I was zoned in, oblivious to the noise around me. I chipped the ball into the open space right behind him, knowing my teammate would run into the space without even looking. From then on, I continued to hone my skills through intense practice to become the best playmaker I could be, working in conjunction with my faster and stronger teammates to become a well-balanced, unified team.

Through chess and soccer, I have discovered that every piece in a puzzle has a purpose. This new perspective has enhanced my ability to stop, stand back, and analyze the whole picture in the many dimensions of my life. In my scientific studies, it was not enough to examine just one C. reinhardtii cell, but it was necessary to zoom out the microscope to capture all of the thousand cells to truly understand quorum sensing and its consequences. In my studies of music, it was not enough to listen to the melody of the finale of Beethoven’s 9th symphony, but one must realize that the true beauty of the composition lies in the whole orchestra handing off this simple melody to every instrument. All these facets—music, research, soccer, chess—are not only completed puzzles but also parts of a greater whole: my life. Every aspect of myself matters as much as the other. As high school comes to an end, the pieces on my board are set, and I only have success in mind.

Your move.

The first lesson I learned as a student pilot is that left and right don’t exist. Maybe driving on a highway or in a parking lot, left and right is precise enough to describe the location and movements of slow-moving bikers, pedestrians, and cars. But at 36,000 feet in the air in a steel tube hurdling almost 200 miles an hour? Left and right just don’t cut it.

During one of my first flights in a small Cessna-182, my flight instructor ordered me to scan the horizon for approaching aircrafts. To my right, I caught a glimpse of one: another Cessna with maroon stripes, the sun’s reflection glinting off its windows. Gesturing vaguely to my two o’clock, I informed my flying instructor, “There’s a plane to the right.”

“No, to your right. From his position, what direction does he see you?” From his angle, I was to his left. In that moment, I realized that perspective and precision of language is everything. The radio chirped: “Cessna One-Eight-Two Sandra, heading north to John Wayne Airport. Over.”

I navigate using my compass’s north, east, south, and west directions because every pilot’s vantage point differs from each other both vertically and horizontally, creating opposite perspectives. My right was that pilot’s left.

Through flying, I began to consider all points of view, regardless of my personal perspective.

Perhaps it was my ability to scan the horizon to communicate a single story, uniting contrasting outlooks, that drew me to my love for journalism and the diverse melting pot that was my community.

To me, journalism modernizes the ancient power of storytelling, filled with imperfect characters and intricate conflicts to which I am the narrator. As editor-in-chief for my school newspaper, The Wildcat’s Tale, I aim to share the uncensored perspective of all students and encourage my editorial groups to talk — and listen — to those with whom they disagree. Starting each newspaper edition with a socratic, round-table discussion, I ask the other journalists to pursue stories that answer the questions: why did this happen and where will it lead?

Expanding beyond the perspectives of my classmates, I began writing articles for the Korea Daily, and later, the Los Angeles Times High School Insider. I schedule interviews with city council candidates, young and old voters, and mayors of my town, obtaining quotes and anecdotes to weave into my writing. My interviews with both Democratic and Republican voters have taught me to thoroughly report polarizing-opposite opinions through an unbiased lens. As a journalist, I realized I cannot presume the opinions of the reader, but instead simply provide them with the tools necessary to formulate their own conclusions.

However, differences in perspective in my articles are not solely limited to politics. I found that in my suburban community, people love to read about the small-town hospitality of their own friends and neighbors. Quirky traditions, like our Fourth of July carnival clown and local elementary school’s Thanksgiving talent show, are equally as important to me as national headlines are. My favorite stories to publish are the ones taped onto fridges, proudly framed on the mom-and-pop downtown diner, or pinned into the corkboard in my teacher’s classroom. I discovered the size of my story does not matter, but the impact I leave on the reader does.

In my time as both a student pilot and journalist, I grew to love these stories, the ones that showed me that living life with blinders, can not only be boring, but dangerous. Whether I was 36,000 feet in the air or on ground level, by flying and writing, I realized that the most interesting stories of life come straight from the people most different from me.

I cannot dance.

This is not something I often admit willingly; in fact, it is quite baffling to me how horribly incapable I am at performing even the most basic movements on command. My grandmother often describes it as “a tragedy” as she is forced to watch her grandchild absolutely butcher our country’s cultural dances, beautiful expressions of our unique West African roots turned into poor facsimiles by my robotic movements.

And yet, year after year, I find myself taking the dance floor at my family’s events, seemingly unaware of my objective lack of skill. Eventually, my display proves to be so amazingly unbearable that I am removed from the floor and shown the correct movements over and over again until I am able to replicate them well enough to come back. Bizarrely, despite my previous declaration that I cannot dance, for the past three years, I have found myself performing an entire choreographed routine at my school’s yearly pep rallies.

It is through looking back at these events that I realize that I have created a mischaracterization of my dancing abilities through my decisive first sentence. I can dance and am, in fact, very capable of doing so, but not when I act insularly. My ability to dance correlates directly with how willing I am to collaborate, the input and support of others turning the uncoordinated and unwieldy into the near-graceful.

My attempts at dancing have led me to value community and collaboration greatly, and I find myself seeking and being drawn towards environments that will allow me to continue to develop both of these values as I learn and grow. Through my internship with the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Lab, I was exposed to and became fascinated by the collaborative spirit that lies at the heart of Johns Hopkins. The idea that one cannot discover or innovate when working alone was affirmed during my research, and I have come to see that mutual collaboration and community are integral aspects of Johns Hopkins’ unique culture. From the research initiatives that breach the boundaries between class levels, to the many organizations such as the Tutorial Project, relying on the shared initiatives of different students to directly make an impact on Baltimore and its many communities, and the distinctive access to especially interdisciplinary topics such as neuromorphic systems, I view that Johns Hopkins exemplifies the peak of collaborative achievement in education.

“Is it bigger than a breadbox?”

“Yes.”

I have always been tall, decidedly tall. Yet, my curiosity has always surpassed my height. Starting at a young age, I would ask countless questions, from “How heavy is the Earth?” to “Where does rain come from?” My curiosity, displayed in questions like these, has truly defined me as a person and as a student. Therefore, it is not surprising that I became transfixed the first time I played 20Q (the electronic version of Twenty Questions). Somehow, a little spherical device guessed what I was thinking. The piece of technology sparked my curiosity and instilled in me a unique interest in 20Q. This interest would later reveal valuable character traits of mine while also paralleling various facets of my life.

“Does it strive to learn?”

“Yes.”

I became determined to discover how 20Q guessed correctly. After some research, I discovered artificial intelligence, more specifically, artificial neural networks—systems which learn and improve themselves. This idea fascinated me. I wanted to learn more. I read avidly, seeking and absorbing as much information as I could. When given the opportunity years later, I signed up for the first computer programming class available to me. I found myself in an environment I loved. I would stay after class, go in during free periods, make my own apps, and work over Cloud-based IDEs. I prized the freedom and the possibilities.

“Is it driven?”

“Yes.”

After my introduction to 20Q, I began to play Twenty Questions (the traditional parlor game) and became determined to rival the guessing accuracy of the artificial intelligence. At first I was mediocre. However, through long car rides with family, good-natured yet heated competitions with friends, logical strategy, and time, I became more effective. I discovered the “secrets” to success: practice and perseverance.

“Does it apply what it learns?”

“Yes.”

As 20Q implements what it learns, so do I. Throughout high school, I applied the “secret” of practice to my basketball career. I spent countless hours sharpening my skills in 90° summer heat to 20° late-winter cold, countless afternoons playing pickup games with my friends, and countless weekends traveling to AAU basketball tournaments. As a result, I became a starter for my school’s varsity team. I applied another “secret,” this time the “secret” of perseverance, by dedicating myself to physical therapy after knee surgery in order to quickly return to football. Later that year, I became the first player in my grade to score a varsity touchdown.

“Does it attempt to better itself?”

“Yes.”

Once I became proficient at Twenty Questions, I strengthened my resolve to become masterful. To do so, I needed to become a skillful inquisitor and to combine that with my analytical nature and interpersonal skills, all of which are vital for success in Twenty Questions. Because I had been debating politics with my friends since the 8th grade, I recognized that debate could sharpen these skills. I began to debate more frequently (and later more effectively) in English and government class, at the lunch table and family gatherings, and whenever the opportunity presented itself. This spurred in me an interest for how public policy and government work, leading me to attend Boys State and receive a nomination for The United States Senate Youth Program.

“Does it think deeply?”

“Yes.”

So far, I have realized that thriving at Twenty Questions, just like life, is all about tenacity, rationality and interpersonal skills. I have found that, as in Twenty Questions, always succeeding is impossible; however, by persevering through difficulties and obstacles, favorable outcomes are often attainable. As I have become better at Twenty Questions, so too have I improved in many other aspects of my life. Nonetheless, I realize that I still have unbounded room to grow. And much like 20Q, I will continue to learn throughout my life and apply my knowledge to everything I do.

“Are you thinking of me?”

“Yes.”

I was born with an extra hand—kind of. Anatomically, I’m normal. I don’t have a third arm protruding from the center of my chest or anything of the sort. I do, however, have the unusual ability to use both hands equally well. When I was little, I thought of my ambidexterity as a fun trick. I always liked to play with people when learning a new skill:

“Okay, now are you right or left handed?”

“I don’t know,” I would answer with a comical smile. Or even better, “Pick one for me.”

It’s a bit silly, but I enjoyed the simple satisfaction of being different. For me, ambidexterity has always meant versatility. From using my left hand in a restrictive corner while doing yardwork to switch-hitting in baseball depending on the context of the game, my hands give me the flexibility to adapt to my surroundings. As I’ve grown, however, I’ve realized that ambidexterity means more than just its quirky face value. It’s synonymous with many of the other components of my character.

Ambidexterity is part of who I am, yet it’s something few people know I have. It makes sense that only my closest friends know about my dual-handed capabilities. Although I use my talent throughout my day, it usually blends in with the normal functions of anyone else’s hands. In this sense, ambidexterity isn’t some glaring anomaly: It’s only when you realize it’s there does it become special.

Similarly, much of who I am remains unnoticed at first glance, not because of insignificance but because of initial perception. Most of the people who know me have no clue I’m valedictorian; I’m the kid making paper airplanes at the end of class. The rest don’t realize I “do more than just school” but are pleasantly surprised to see me dancing around as Risky Business Tom Cruise for Halloween or just hanging out all over town on weekends. I like to think that ambidexterity helps me juggle these different parts of myself without letting anything go.

In my job as a Little League umpire, I have three distinct identities. To the league manager, I’m the responsible, quick-replying emailer and the primary person for the job. To the coaches, I’m a wave a relief—they know I’m going to make the right call. To the young players, I’m the umpire who gives helpful tips as well as the one they feel comfortable joking around with. Though each of these roles helps me in their own way, collectively, they are the reason I was made the lead umpire of the league.

In terms of academics, ambidexterity means finishing a half-hour phone call trying to understand the complexities of William Faulkner and immediately turning around to text watered-down calculus explanations to help another student. My ability to transition quickly has helped me establish myself as a go-to helper in nearly every subject, but these behind-the-scenes interactions happen away from my teachers’ eyes. Even teachers, however, see the respect other students have for me during class discussions. Outside of class, other students come to me because they recognize that I genuinely want to help guide them toward their own success.

When it comes down to it, ambidexterity means balance. From athlete to academic, from reliable employee to kind-hearted helper, I take on an array of roles in my life. Just as my two hands merge to create a more efficient system, my personal flexibility allows me to handle the many aspects of my life from different angles. Although each part of me is individually effective, my most complete self comes from applying them together. It allows me to become more than just efficient or well-rounded but a better friend, a more fitting leader, and a respected role model. So now, when I run into the inevitable questions in college applications about who I really am, I can answer clearly: I am ambidextrous.

Instinctively, I hold my breath. The pungent fragrance of roasted coffee beans and the shrill sound of steam whistles from the espresso machines force my senses into overload. Before me are mounds of freshly-baked goodies and colossal stacks of books piled on bookshelves as high as the ceiling. Pressing my nose against the glass cover, I don’t budge until the ginormous chocolate-chip cookie is within my possession. With one hand holding my cookie, I collect as many books as my chubby arms can hold and plop into my favorite blue armchair. I would look forward to this routine: every Saturday, when the big hand hit six, my parents would take me to Timothy’s, their coffee shop, and I would begin the day’s quest.

To my childhood self, Timothy’s was my bridge to Terabithia. In this world, I’ve been a resident of Dr. Seuss’s topsy-turvy Thneedville; an acrobat, weaving words into webs with Charlotte; and a palace spy in Wonderland, fighting for my life in a game of flamingo croquet. Braving these adventures instilled in me a sense of invincibility that pushed me to tackle new experiences, even engaging in mischievous absurdities, both in this world and reality.

Draping myself in jewelry constructed out of straws and cup sleeves, I would unabashedly strut all around the café. Expressions of this unwavering self-confidence and sense of invincibility were not solely limited to my sense of fashion, but rather, it was ingrained in every thought and action that I had. I believed that Timothy’s should’ve been called Anna-Banana’s, that the blue armchair was my throne, and that the deliveryman’s dolly was my royal carriage. Ignorant to the laws of gravity, I once jumped off the dolly after reaching peak acceleration, wholeheartedly believing that I could fly. With a bruised ego and scraped knees, I learned a valuable lesson: invincibility is a mere delusion.

I realized that Timothy’s was never a world constructed solely for me, at least in the way I had imagined. There were no adoring crowds, and the blue armchair wasn’t mine. While I had imagined glorious adventures, in reality, my family’s livelihood depended on the success of this café. Moving to Canada without any support, my educated parents relinquished their professional aspirations to build a stable business to provide for me. Awareness of my parents’ sacrifices for my success imbued my understanding of the interdependency of people, their successes, and their failures, providing me with a new lens to construct my understanding of the world.

Shifting from being front and center to an observant spectator, I began to see beyond myself, picking up the art of people-watching. As if placing an invisibility cloak on, I would quietly sink into the blue armchair, discreetly watching peoples’ behavior and interactions with one another. I found myself creating whimsical backstories of circumstance for each passerby, intertwining chance encounters and meaningful exchanges. People-watching not only helped me to become more aware of those around me, was also as an opportunity to explore undiscovered parts of myself.

I learned that despite the many sports that I have experimented with, I am the MVP at bench-warming. I make a mean latte, often topping my creations with adorable foam cats. I adore Broadway musicals and am always ready to showcase my dancing at a flash mob. I passionately believe in advocating for human rights, actively engaging in Amnesty International’s initiatives. And, I discovered that I am not only an advocate for but also identify with the LGBTQ+ community.

To say that I have figured out all of who I am would be a lie. Unlike the world of fantasy, there is no single defining moment – no Excalibur, no Sorting Hat – that marks my complete evolution. My niche in the world constantly changes, but what remains steadfast is my commitment to a life of service and adventure, albeit it isn’t as cozy as the blue armchair.

Whether we are opera singers or shower-wailers, ballet dancers or awkward shufflers, we all understand how music makes us feel, and more importantly, makes us move. Moving to music is so much a part of the human experience that it seems innate to us as a species. A recent study supports this, showing that fetuses react to music with increased motion, and in some cases, open their mouths as if to sing. Once out of the womb, this response only grows: a catchy tune makes hips swing and toes tap, and in certain situations, heads bang.

The music that moves us is itself a product of movement. As a musician who is a tactile learner, I’m keenly aware of the way a piece feels as I play it. Despite years of piano teachers telling me to read the page in front of me while I play, my eyes habitually wander to my hands, where the music is really happening. This gap between reading and performing music keeps me from fully expressing my musical ideas.

As a way to bridge this divide, I am trying to create a simple instrument that translates movement directly into music, using motion to capture melodic ideas and expressions. I got this idea while watching a lively orchestra conductor, who sometimes overshadowed the players so much that he seemed to be dancing alone, pulling notes through the air with his baton. Enchanted by how effortlessly he stirred the ocean of sound around him, I caught myself swishing my hands back and forth to the beat. As I lifted my arm to match the swelling tempo, I wondered: what if we could turn all kinds of movement into melodies?

It occurred to me that I could apply my skills in computer science and digital media to create a movement-to music application. To a computer everything is math, including music and movement. Every note and motion can be tracked, stored, and broken down into a set of variables, based on information from an outside source, such as a computer mouse or touchpad. I am currently taking advantage of this relationship by creating a web-based application that synthesizes music based on interactions with the cursor. The program, once completed, will play notes as the mouse is pressed, with unique pitch and tone determined by the position and motion of the pointer.

Eventually, I’d like to take this concept further using more sophisticated technology. I plan to take data from a motion sensor or camera and convert it directly into sound, using a simple device that tracks movement and translates its vertical position into musical pitch, its horizontal position into musical dynamics (soft to loud), and its speed into musical tone. Imagine being able to move your hand to generate a pitch that changes with the direction of movement, producing a musical phrase. Sophisticated users would be able to control relationships between variables to suit their needs; for example, they could link various components of movement (such as direction or speed in all three dimensions) to a wide range of musical characteristics, including, but not limited to, timbre, harmonics, and distortion.

Ultimately, artists could use my instrument to make music from anything that moves: dancers onstage, migrating birds, traffic at a busy intersection. It would not only close the gap between the conception and realization of music, but it could open new creative pathways that combine music and motion. As for me, I look forward to performing on an empty stage, directing an invisible orchestra with the flick of my wrist.

“No, no, no, you’re all doing it wrong! The secret to developing realistic drawings lies in your ability to study every nuance of the object in front of you,” my art teacher advised. “Try sketching with one eye closed; it’s all about perspective, people!”

My classmates accepted his advice and I watched as they attempted to make sense of the lifeless apples and pears that lay on the desk in front of them. I, too, clamped my left eye shut, pretending that this technique altered my view in the same manner it affected my peers. It didn’t. With one eye closed, my fruit appeared precisely the same as it had with both eyes open.

As a result of a Retinoblastoma diagnosis at two years old, my world, which my parents dotingly refer to as “Jillian’s world,” has always appeared slightly different from that of others. I have no recollection of having binocular vision, so depth perception has always been a non-existent ability. For the majority of my childhood, I felt ashamed by my prosthetic eye, purposely pushing my hair toward the left side of my face and avoiding all eye contact that surpassed ten seconds. I hated that my eyes did not appear the same, and constantly worried how others would perceive my abnormality. It was not until last summer, when I received a government scholarship to study Hindi in India, that my perspective regarding “Jillian’s world” was altered by one unlikely symbol: the swastika.

I encountered it upon entering my host-family’s home for the first time. It was plastered directly on top of their front doorstep in between two mosaic footprints. I had seen the swastika millions of times in history books and documentaries, but blatantly confronting it in person was an entirely different story. My heart started to sting as images of skeletal bodies and families torn apart raced through my head. The swastika was the face of the bigotry and discrimination that I strongly denounced. I could not wrap my head around the fact that I was about to spend my summer with people who displayed a hate symbol in front of their home.

Within a matter of days I discovered that my host-family was the complete antithesis of the negative characteristics I had originally associated with the swastika. They took me to lavish weddings and temples and taught me how to cook Indian cuisine. My host-mom showed me traditional techniques to create art and we shared many laughs at my many failed attempts at bargaining with market shopkeepers in Hindi. By the mid-way point in my program I had fallen in love with my host-family and their vibrant culture. It was then that I realized that I needed to take another look at the swastika through my host-family’s lens.

One afternoon, I asked my host-mom what the symbol meant in her culture, informing her that it was an infamous hate symbol in the United States. Her response is forever ingrained in my memory.

With wide eyes and a furrowed brow, she answered, “A hate symbol? No no, we believe the swastik is a symbol for peace and good fortune. Why is it hateful?”

When I mentioned the Holocaust, she appeared even more confused. After further researching the symbol, I found that the swastika, known as the swastik in Hindi, had been a Hindu symbol of peace thousands of years before it was ever a symbol of evil. We sat across from each other, both amazed at how our views of one symbol could oppose one another, yet be equally valid in their own respect; this was the beauty of perspective. Since returning from India, I now push my hair away from my face with headbands and my fear of sustained eye contact has vanished. My disability does not limit “Jillian’s world,” but rather, gives me the ability to see far and wide, apples and pears included.

I looked up and flinched slightly. There were at least sixty of them, far more than expected. I had thirty weeks to teach them the basics of public speaking. Gritting my teeth, I split my small group of tutors among the crowd and sat down for an impromptu workshop with the eighth graders. They were inexperienced, monotone, and quiet. In other words, they reminded me of myself…

I was born with a speech impediment that weakened my mouth muscles. My speech was garbled and incomprehensible. Understandably, I grew up quiet. I tried my best to blend in and give the impression I was silent by choice. I joined no clubs in primary school, instead preferring isolation. It took six years of tongue twisters and complicated mouth contortions in special education classes for me to produce the forty-four sounds of the English language.

Then, high school came. I was sick of how confining my quiet nature had become. For better or for worse, I decided to finally make my voice heard.

Scanning the school club packet, I searched for my place. Most activities just didn’t feel right. But then, I sat in on a debate team practice and was instantly hooked. I was captivated by how confidently the debaters spoke and how easily they commanded attention. I knew that this was the path forward.

Of course, this was all easier said than done. Whenever it was my turn to debate, I found that I was more of a deer in the headlights than a person enjoying the spotlight. My start was difficult, and I stuttered more than I spoke in those first few weeks. Nonetheless, I began using the same tools as I did when I learned to speak all those years ago: practice and time. I watched the upperclassmen carefully, trying to speak as powerfully as they did. I learned from my opponents and adapted my style through the hundreds of rounds I lost. With discipline, I drilled, repeating a single speech dozens of times until I got it right.

Day by day, I began to stand a little taller and talk a little louder both inside and outside of debate. In a few months, my blood no longer froze when I was called on in class. I found I could finally look other people in the eyes when I talked to them without feeling embarrassed. My posture straightened and I stopped fidgeting around strangers. I began to voice my opinions as opposed to keeping my ideas to myself. As my debate rank increased from the triple to single-digits, so too did my standing at school. I began interacting with my teachers more and leading my peers in clubs. In discussions, I put forward my ideas with every bit as much conviction as my classmates. When seniors began to ask me for advice and teachers recruited me to teach underclassmen, I discovered not only that I had been heard, but that others wanted to listen. At heart, I am still reserved (some things never change), but in finding my voice, I found a strength I could only dream of when I stood in silence so many years ago.

Standing in front of the crowd of students, it was my hope that by founding this program, I could give them an experience that was as empowering as mine had been for me. As the weeks passed, the students inched past their insecurities and towards finding their voices, just as I had always wanted to do. On the last day of class for that year, I looked up and saw each of the students standing confidently, equipped and ready to speak their minds in whatever they wanted to do. They had come a long way from being the shy and stuttering novices that they were just thirty weeks before—I can’t wait to see how far they can go from here.

“If you had to choose one food to eat for the rest of your life, what would it be?”

Having had this question asked of me many a time, I realize that such an inquiry must be considered practically. The correct answer would keep me happily sustained for the rest of my years, whereas the wrong choice could leave me tormented until I wither away from monotony. If I chose macaroni and cheese, per se, I’d be trapped consuming glutinous pasta, tacky milk-fat, yellow dye No.5, and copious amounts of sodium, forever. But if instead, I call upon my contentment understandings and assess my options accordingly, I may arrive at an indefectible conclusion. And after much deliberation, I believe that I have come to such a response: potatoes.

These tubers are the perfect sustenance due not only to their nutritional qualities but, most notably, to their remarkable versatility. Potatoes may be prepared in a myriad of dishes.

Creamy mashed-potatoes come first to mind, with their fluffy hills of whipped-bliss gracing one’s tongue so delicately. The thought of golden tater-tots follows; deep-fried potatoes cooked perfectly so as to create a slow crunch when chewed. Then are characteristic french-fries—shoestring or steak, skin on or off. Baked-potatoes, latkes, hash-browns, gnocchi—all respectable meals. And one mustn’t forget potato-chips when searching for alight snack.

Oh potatoes, how I love you. And when asked what to eat exclusively for the rest of my life, I will enthusiastically respond “potatoes!”, for by picking one, I choose an abundance.

To a casual onlooker, this question may appear inconsequential in its hypothetical nature, but as they say; you are what you eat. My inclination towards the varied is not contained to my food habits—it is a recurring theme throughout my life. I regularly switch from my mom’s house to my dad’s. I’ve moved twelve times. I have a fifteen-year-old sister and a two-year-old brother. I’m a dog and a cat person.

This variation tends not to leave me with an aversion to commitment, but a disposition towards diversity. I am interested in many things. So one must understand how I have struggled, faced throughout my education with the question, “If you had to choose one subject to study, one occupation to pursue, one thing to do, for the rest of your life, what would it be?”

I love to play viola; I get a rush communicating without-words to my quartet members in order to convey a musical message. I am at my happiest reading a good book; their complex stories captivate me and I aspire to write a novel of my own. I want to make laws that improve my country; all people should have a shot at the American dream. I am passionate about protecting the environment; reducing our effect on global-warming is of the utmost importance to me. I want to help those in need; people still don’t have access to clean water and I want to use my privilege to help change that. I strive to become fluent in Spanish; traveling the world is a dream of mine. Recently, I have discovered that I really like to code; I’m sure in the coming years I will explore things I didn’t know I was interested in.

I don’t have an answer to what exactly it is I want to do for the rest of my life. I love English and political science, but I have yet to find such an all-encompassing response as potatoes. What I’ve realized though, is that I don’t have to sacrifice all for one. From each of my interests I learn things that contribute to who I am and shape how I see the world. Eventually, I will focus my path. And when I do have an answer, I will go forth with the knowledge I’ve gathered from each of my varied interests; and I will never stop learning.

There I was, hanging from the precipice, muscles trembling, fingers aching, sweat dripping onto my spotter twenty feet below. He could see I was struggling, and shouted words of encouragement, but my head was pounding too loudly to make out the words. During the initial ascent, I felt strong and confident, though the intense scope of the route had begun to loosen my physical grip, as well as my grip on reality. I made it to the final hold, exhausting every drop of energy, unable to fathom lifting my arm again. The wall then became a towering mental blockade. I knew exactly where to put my hand next, yet I still didn’t feel as if I had the physical means of doing so. I screamed and shot my hand up in a final attempt to finish the climb. I was only hanging on by my fingertips and sheer determination, nevertheless I had made it to the top. My belayer celebrated and lowered me down. Weak and exhausted, I could barely unclip myself from the harness; however, mentally I had never felt stronger.

It is during these experiences that the world falls away; all that is left is the rock face itself. I become one with the wall, solely captivated by the placements of its holds and the complexity of its challenge. Time ceases to exist.

Rock climbing is a second language to me. I grew up scaling the tallest trees I could find, desiring the highest vantage point. Growing up in the uniformly flat state of Florida, I was limited in my upward journey. Luckily, I rekindled my love for climbing in high school, and now cannot imagine life without it. My passion for climbing is fueled by the adrenaline that pumps through my veins.

At first, I was an impatient climber who would try and solve the wall before me, making split-second decisions. However, this strategy rapidly tired me out after beginning to climb. Clearly, this method wasn’t going to get the job done; I had to change my mindset. Now, when I approach a wall, I first draw the problem out in my mind, using my hands to examine the holds. Like a game of chess, I lay out an intricate plan of attack. If I am completely perplexed by a wall, I converse with other pro climbers to guide me towards the best route. Every time I interact with climbers better than myself, I learn a new technique and create new bonds. Being part of the rock climbing community has helped me develop my social skills.

The best things about climbing is that there is no clear-cut way to climb a wall, and that there is always a new challenge. My climbing partners say that I take the most unorthodox routes when climbing, but ironically they’re the most natural and comfortable paths for me. I get lost in the walls and climb for hours, as time becomes irrelevant. I think of nothing else but reaching the last hold and forget all of my worries. Even when my friends beg to go home from fatigue, I insist on attempting another route. I don’t feel I’ve had a sufficient climbing session until my forearms are pulsing and the skin on my fingertips are raw.

Patience, collaboration, and determination are all needed when climbing a wall, like in any field of research. I no longer say I can’t do something, instead approaching challenges with the utmost confidence. If one plan falls short, I reassess and approach the wall from another angle. I am comfortable making decisions, even when I don’t know what the outcome may be. Through this life-changing sport I have strengthened not only my body but also my mind, learning the beauty of problem solving.

“These people are just confused,” Emily whispered to me as she stared out the car window at the gay couples walking down the rainbow streets of the Castro. I was utterly offended by her statement, but I replied calmly, “Let people be who they are.” Emily and I grew up in Texas together as inseparable friends. For twelve years that was our beautiful home, and we enjoyed every moment together. Last summer, Emily visited my new home of five years, San Francisco, for the first time. It felt like no time had passed. We still laughed until our faces turned tomato red. We still screamed our favorite Taylor Swift songs as if there was no tomorrow. Nothing could get in between the love we had for each other, even our vehemently opposing opinions.

Emily’s visit sparked a period of growth in which I improved respecting values of those with an opposite viewpoint. That challenge especially reflects the stagnant state of the current political climate in the United States. Extreme polarization is preventing collaboration that could resolve any issues. Even in my daily experiences, I notice the extreme dichotomy. My friends in California stereotype my friends in Texas. My friends in Texas stereotype my friends in California. During debates in history class or jokes during lunch, I observe that these toxic assumptions produce an atmosphere of mistrust. I find that abhorrence exhausting, especially considering that I experienced the beauty on both sides beneath the stereotypes. Disagreement between opposing perspectives is healthy in creating a functioning balance. However, when the fine line between argument and hatred blurs, resolution seems impossible.

So, I try to listen with an open mind, even when that feels extremely difficult. Sometimes, pure adrenaline rushes through my body, making me want to bang my hands on the table out of complete anger towards an opinion. I have learned, though, that suppressing my emotional side during a time of disagreement and instead responding with calmness gets my point across more effectively. When that irritation begins to overtake my ability to concentrate on another person’s outlook, I always try to draw from my experiences of living both in the South and in the West. People come from different backgrounds. They are surrounded by different cultures and experiences. I don’t necessarily have to find validity in everyone’s viewpoints to at least listen to their reasoning.

The more I remain nonjudgmental, the more my own beliefs develop and become nuanced. I have nothing to lose when I listen to my peers. I extract small pieces of their perspectives in order to enhance my own. If I completely disagree with their opinions, I use their counterargument to articulate a more potent version of my position. The value in telling my story is just as important as hearing another. I love group projects in school, where ideas and creativity flow between people. I adore the end of a cross country race when all the girls from different schools hug and laugh with one another. I cherish being on a soccer team, where the bond between my teammates and me is essential for achieving success. Appreciating uniqueness and connecting to different characters augments my own maturity and depth. I want to meet new people. I want to be challenged by new ideas. I want to experience new places. Despite our differences, Emily and I have a healthy relationship in which we are able to learn from one another; the acknowledgement of our individual value allows us to avoid bitterness. I strive to continue improving my ability to be comfortable with disagreement in order to learn more from my peers. I may not always send up agreeing with Emily, or other people I care about, but I should at least try to understand a different perspective. Only then can I create a bridge that connects two different ideas, allowing for a more harmonious world.

Standing in front of the kitchen counter, my small hands are placed on the cool granite top and my eyes rest on the empty bowl set out in front of me. On one side lies a pack of masa harina and on the other, a pitcher filled with water. Tortillas are considered to be somewhat of a staple food in Guatemala and in Central American cuisines. Whenever my mom asks me to make tortillas, I groan internally; not because I dislike tortillas, but because I simply cannot make them. What should come naturally as a Guatemalan native is foreign to my small hands. My hands are unable to form the perfectly sized circles because they are trying to decide what dominates more—my Guatemalan roots or the American culture I grew up in.

Minutes pass and I have done absolutely nothing. Finally, I extend my hesitant arm to pick up the pack of masa harina and proceed to pour it into the bowl. As I pour the masa harina, I cannot help but think about how much it resembles my journey to America. When I moved, I brought my Guatemalan heritage with me into the massive bowl that is the United States. Continuing with the recipe, I gradually add water to the masa harina and knead it until it becomes the desired texture. Assimilating into American culture and the American way of life was no easy feat for me and I struggled at first, but I found ways to manage. Although my parents were not fluent in English, I was able to learn English with the help of Dora the Explorer, Barney, and my surroundings. Little by little, American culture poured into my life, intermingling with my Guatemalan roots.

My next step is to grab a small amount of masa in my hands and begin to roll it into as much of a perfectly shaped sphere as I can. Flattening the ball of masa between my hands, I begin to shape it into a tortilla. Similar to how I have a preconceived notion of how I want the tortilla to turn out, I tend to idealize how I want my life to turn out. Regardless of my efforts, I can’t help it if my tortilla tears as I attempt to shape it. Just like the cracks and tears in my tortilla, I face obstacles in life. However, I have learned to not let them bring me down or keep me from continuing to try. For instance, I come from a low socioeconomic background, but I have never let that stop me from pursuing my aspirations. It is not just about the tortilla that I am making right in front of me. It is about me, my life, and what kind of tortilla I will end up being. Will I be a tortilla that looks like every other one? Or will I be a tortilla, uniquely made in the most perfect imperfect shape?

Despite my many failed attempts at making tortillas throughout my life, I have discovered the key ingredient to the tortilla recipe, and ultimately the recipe of life: persistence. If trying to make tortillas has taught me anything, it is that: it’s not about the shape of the tortilla, it’s about how the tortilla faces the hot griddle of life.

Ever since the first grade, Dmitri Mendeleev has been my hero. When I first saw the periodic table, I was in awe; the colors, the patterns, the symmetric shape—everything mesmerized me. Ever since that moment, the periodic table has defined the way I live. Just as Mendeleev put together a seemingly random assortment of elements to form the now infamous periodic table, I loved putting together the seemingly random jumble of words and numbers in word problems to formulate a solution.

Math has always been a channel for my creativity and passion. In fact, it was through math that I first unearthed my love of discovery. I still vividly remember the rush of joy that I felt when I finished struggling through my first word problem and triumphantly waved it around in the air. As I progressed further and further up the insurmountable mountain of math and began to encounter more foreign concepts, it only got more interesting. No longer was I in a world saturated with numbers; instead, letters and symbols began to enter the mix too. My curiosity was insatiable. And then, I picked up my first calculus textbook. While many remember this moment as one of severe anxiety or trepidation, I remember looking at the strange, archaic symbols, bewildered, thinking where did the numbers go? Because this was in third grade, I didn’t fully understand the intricacies behind the mathematical notation. Nonetheless, it was at that point that I decided to pursue mathematics.

But, the more I researched, the more questions I had. As I dug deeper into the inviting, yet mysterious abyss of number theory, I saw math morph into shapes and patterns and I came to the realization that math is more than numbers; mathematics represents a field of patterns, representations, models that lay the foundation for the way our universe works. That’s when it dawned on me: I loved math for the same reason I loved the periodic table. The rush of discovery, the love of patterns, the joy of exploration—everything was the same. As I explored my love for math further, I began to realize that the joy that I experienced when discovering something new was not only because of that “Eureka!” moment; rather, it was utilizing the tools that mathematics provided to apply the intangible concepts so prevalent in textbooks to the world that surrounds us.

The duality of the periodic table—the cold, hard numbers mixed with the reassuring, steadfast patterns—has manifested itself in every aspect of my life. While the patterns of the periodic table drew me towards mathematics, it was the systematic, ordered way of bringing math into science that pulled me into coding, first making websites with HTML, then writing programs with Java. My passion for programming grew. The world of coding presented itself to me as a way to bring the patterns I loved into the world in a way I could see them.

But something was still missing. After years of refining my analytical interests, I still yearned for that element of science that I had grown to love as a first grader. I was still missing that feeling of success after persevering through a difficult word problem or struggling through memorizing the first 100 digits of pi. It was then that I discovered biology. As I explored various research studies that not only furthered scientific understanding but also helped millions around the world, I knew that this was what I wanted to do. Medical research, specifically in cellular biology and genetics, condenses my passion for mathematics, biology, and discovery into one distinct goal. Whether it be analyzing patterns in the genome, generating computer models of clathrin-mediated endocytosis, or studying the chemical composition of organic molecules, cellular biology embodies my passions just as well as the periodic table.

The white yarn slipped off my aluminium crochet hook, adding a single crochet to rows and rows of existing stitches, that looked to be in the form of a blob. Staring at the image of the little unicorn amigurumi lit up on the screen of my laptop, and looking back at the UMO (unidentified messy object) number five, I was extremely perplexed.

This had seemed so easy. Round 1, construct a magic circle with 6 single crochets. Done. Round 2 was an increase round resulting in a total of 12 stitches. Also done. The remaining rounds were blurred into hours and minutes that should have resulted in a little white creature in the likeness of a unicorn, but sitting on my desk (much like the four days before today) was a pool of tangled white yarn. It was not until day seven that a creature with a lopsided head whose horn was the only identifier of the mythical being emerged.

Very much like learning how to crochet, my journey in forging my own path and finding a passion was confusing, messy and at times infuriating. Even in primary school, I had heard all the stories of individuals finding their own route in life. I had been told stories of those who found their passion at a young age and were exceptionally proficient at their craft, of those that abandoned their interests and pursued a lucrative career, even those who chose their dreams but regretted it afterwards. This weighed heavily on me, as I was determined to have a success story as many of my other family members had. The only problem was that I did not have a direction.

In the years following primary school, I stepped out of my comfort zone in a frenzy to find a passion. I joined the school orchestra where I played the violin, and a debate class to practice public speaking and become much more eloquent. At my ballet school, I branched out to contemporary and jazz dance. I stuffed myself with experience similar to an amigurumi engorged with batting. I found myself enjoying all of those activities but soon enough, I was swamped with extracurriculars. Just like the tangles of white yarn on my desk, I was pulled in all directions. I still felt lost. To make things worse, it seemed as if everyone else had found their path in life, and they had all become white unicorns while I was still doubting the stitch I just made.

It was not until high school that I realised that I could view this mission to find a passion from another perspective. While successfully completing a crochet project is an accomplishment itself, the motions of making slip knots, single or double crochets takes you on an adventure as well. The knots that I had encountered in my craft were evidence of my experiences and what shaped me as an individual. My exploration of various paths through detours may have sometimes resulted in roadblocks, but I continued to persevere and learn from my experiences, applying the skills that I have gained to future knots. The mini adventures that I went on were all crucial to me in the greater journey of life.

Through trial and error, the current adventure that I am on resonates the most with me, taking me down the path of service and environmental activism. However, I have learnt that no one path is static, and I can be on more than one path at a time. While I may only be halfway to the proportionate unicorn amigurumi that some others may have already achieved, I still have so much to learn and so much that I want to learn, and so my journey to grow continues.

If you told me I would be playing a sport called squash at 11 years old, I would call you crazy. But in seventh grade, I was at a new school 10 times bigger than my last one. I felt like a little fish in a big pond. I was quiet, withdrawn, and very introverted. A lot of the time, I stayed where I was comfortable.

During the first week of school, a group of people visited the school and they introduced themselves as Squashbusters. At that time, I’d only heard of Squash once before, but I didn’t really know what it was. Because the program combined the sport of squash with academic support, mentoring, and service opportunities, I decided to sign up. It’s been six years and this program has made a monumental difference in my life.

Being a part of SquashBusters is a program that really pushed me out of my shell to the point where I’ve grown accustomed to challenging myself. In SquashBusters, they tell us to push ourselves past our limits on the squash courts, but that mindset has transferred to other areas of my life as well. From team trips and tournaments to cringy karaoke moments and participating in eccentric traditions like our annual SquashBusters Olympics, my comfort zone has steadily grown larger. My peers brought out a side of me I didn’t even know existed. I haven’t transformed completely from introvert to extrovert, but I’ve become more social as the years go by.

At Hopkins, I want to do something similar. I want to try new things and embrace the campus traditions. Even though I will develop intellectually from the many academic classes and clubs/activities offered on campus, I feel as though a true community is birthed from exploring beyond what one’s used to. From traditions like Blue Jay Opening Day and the Spring Fair to the many world-changing clubs like the Amnesty International club and the Foreign Affairs Symposium, the different ways to be involved in the Hopkins community is limitless and invigorating and I can’t wait to be a part of the Hopkins family.

“Bring the ace of spades up,” my Grandmother said as we started our first game of solitaire after I got home from school. “Now, put the black eight onto the red nine.” We played solitaire often, working together to reorganize the cards most efficiently. While it was meant to be a single-player game, solitaire was the one thing we did together, moving and dealing the cards in a symphony of order: red to black, red to black. Pulling the pattern out of the random array of cards.

For hours, we sat at our glossy kitchen table, playing game after game. If there were no more moves to make, I would always sneak a card from below a column without my grandma seeing. She always did. I couldn’t understand- What was the big deal of revealing the cards? We might win one out of ten games played. But if we just ‘helped ourselves,’ as I liked to call it, we could win them all. I didn’t understand her adherence to the “Turn Three” rule. Why not just turn the cards one by one? It was too frustrating to see the cards go by, but turn exactly three and not be able to pick them up! After one game we lost, I asked my grandma, “Why do we play this way? There’s a much better way to play.” In response, she quickly explained her adamancy to the rules, what before had made no sense to me.

Her polished fingernails scratched against the cards as she shuffled them and told me. “Solitaire isn’t just a game for one person.” Her deep brown eyes sharply glanced at me, “No.” It wasn’t just a game for one person, but rather for two sides of a person. It was an internal battle, a strengthening of the mind. One playing against oneself. “If one side of you cheats, how would either side get better?”

Red lipsticked lips slightly grinned as my grandma saw me trying to understand, but I didn’t agree with this thought at once. The cards rhythmically slapped down onto the table as my grandmother, small yet stoic, effortlessly moved the cards with frail hands. I watched her. I thought about any other way to understand this idea. I desperately wanted to. Trying to think, I couldn’t imagine another instance where this sense of tranquility, bringing the melody of organization out of a cacophony of random cards, came from such intense competition.

The slow manipulation of life around her precedent made me think back to my grandma, to what she told me, and made me understand. Two years later, pushing myself harder than I ever had before in a field hockey match, I realized how much I had been cheating myself and my team by not putting this effort in before. Four years later, I was helping my parents clean after dinner when I saw the value in not taking the easy way out. Five years later, I found once again the difficult ease in pottery. Lifting the pot off the wheel, I found satisfaction. Looking back, I hadn’t realized that this notion of self-accountability appears in almost every aspect of my life.

Seven columns. Four aces. Fifty-two cards. Laying these down, I’m brought back to playing solitaire with my grandmother. Through time, her inner spirit never crumbled as her body began to deteriorate. Her mind stayed strong and proud. I admired her for that more than she could’ve imagined. Each challenge I face, or will face, in life, I think back to her lesson one inconspicuous afternoon. Never let myself cheat. Always hold myself accountable. Work hard in every competition, especially the ones against myself, as those are the ones that better me the most. I did not understand what my grandmother meant that day. Now, with each day, I do more.

Having explored the myths from ancient Greece, Rome, and Egypt, my curiosity was piqued in eighth grade by a simple legend from Japanese lore. If you fold one thousand paper cranes, the gods will grant you one wish. I took it as a challenge. My previous forays into origami had ended poorly, but I was so excited to begin my quest that this detail seemed inconsequential. My art teacher loaned me a piece of origami paper and, armed with an online tutorial, my quest began. Like an early prototype of the airplane, I ascended towards my dreams for a glorious moment before nose-diving into the ground. The first crane was a disastrous failure of wrinkly lines and torn paper. Too embarrassed to ask for another, I turned to my stack of Post-it notes. By the third attempt, I ended up with a sticky pink paper crane. Holding that delicate bird, I was flooded with triumph and elation.

The first two hundred cranes were all crafted from Post-it notes. Armed with a pack of highlighters, I decorated each piece of paper individually. I folded cranes at home, between classes, and in the car. My fingers were permanently sticky from the glue I scraped off every square. Slowly, my collection grew: first ten, then fifty, then one hundred. Before the task could become monotonous, I started experimenting. How small was it possible for a crane to be? Smaller than a golf ball? Smaller than a dime? Small enough to sit on the end of a pencil? Any size was attainable. I could make a crane smaller than almost any arbitrary form of measurement. Soon I could finish a crane in fifty seconds or with my eyes closed. Anything square and foldable became my medium. Paper towels, candy wrappers, and aluminum foil joined my vibrant menagerie of carefully folded paper. I was unstoppable; that wish was as good as mine.

By six hundred cranes, the increasing demands of high school academics caused my pace to slow. I despaired. I wouldn’t let this be another ambitious project that I couldn’t finish.

My cranes mattered to me. As an outlet for expression, they served as a way to defuse frustration and sadness, and a source of pride and joy. Their creation allows me to bring beauty to the world and to find a sense of order in the bustle and chaos of life. There is a lot of beauty to be found in tiny things. I’m reminded that little gestures have a lot of meaning. I have given away cranes to my friends as a pick-me-up on bad days, and I have made cranes to commemorate people, such as the dark green crane I made the day my grandmother died. They are a symbol of hope to remind me what I have accomplished.

So, I pushed myself to keep working and to keep folding one crane at a time. My determination paid off, and in the summer after sophomore year, my passion was reinvigorated. One month before the end of junior year, I folded my thousandth paper crane. As I leaned over the open drawer brimming with origami pieces in a multitude of sizes and colors, I felt a rush of satisfaction and triumph. Not only was 1,000 cranes an achievement in its own right, but I proved to myself that I can finish what I start.

The world is filled with big numbers. College tuition, monthly rent, and car prices deal in the many thousands. Those figures are incomprehensible to someone who has never interacted with anything so large, and I wanted to understand them. A thousand will never simply be a number to me: it is hundreds upon hundreds of hand-folded cranes combined with years of effort.

So what did I wish for? It turns out, I didn’t need the wish. I learned I have the power to make things happen for myself.

A question that every high school senior is familiar with is: “What kind of college is the right fit for you?” My criterion doesn’t appear in the deluge of admissions pamphlets; that’s because I want my school to resemble my favorite dish: the hummus-tabouli wrap.

…and Johns Hopkins University is the creamiest, tangiest, most flavorful hummus-tabouli wrap in existence.

The secret to any savory wrap lies in how its flavor is contained. Regardless of what outside influences are imposed upon it, the pita bread expertly holds all of its ingredients without allowing them to spill. Hopkins opposes outside pressures, unapologetically supporting individuals who are unafraid to break tradition. The OUTlist, an online database for Hopkins affiliates who openly identify themselves as members of the LGBT community, revolutionized the visibility of LGBT individuals in higher education and created a support network at the university. For students who are struggling with their identity (due to the fear of coming out to their families or friends), I want to help them express themselves and understand that they are not alone. I want to serve as an advocate as well as a source of comfort, like a homemade pita that is warm and soft, yet tenacious.

Next on our wrap is the core layer of hummus, lathered on the pita and heavy with expectation. Being the most renowned staple of the Mediterranean diet comes with its pressures, but hummus handles it well, always stepping up to the plate, ready for any intimidating food critic. Similarly, Hopkins’s academic diversity lives up to its reputation and more. The Classics Department offers 83 different undergraduate courses, with varied paths that students can take in the pursuit of cultural and literary knowledge. I hope to study the interrelationship of modern literature and culture and its classical roots in Latin by examining international texts in courses such as Latin Literature Beyond Hermeneutics taught by Professor Butler. I intend to further facilitate international communication—a modern necessity—by researching how English is adapted by different cultures. I can imagine narrowing my research from World Englishes to the fundamentals of the English language that bring about its malleability under Professors Celenza or Roller of the Classics Department.

After the hummus follows the influx of diced tomatoes, onions, and parsley, all varied in taste, combining to form the tabouli sauce. Tabouli is accepting of its ingredients, which when combined, bring to it a taste that is unparalleled by any other ingredient of wrap. I hope to spend my next four years in the Hopkins community learning alongside students from backgrounds starkly different from my own, who, like each component of tabouli sauce, bring their varied perspectives to discussions, an invaluable trait when studying how English has been adapted by different cultures.

In this world of flavorful foods and people, the delectable allure of Johns Hopkins University entices the palate of my mind. And I hope to eat my fill.

The most exciting time to live in Vermont is mid-February. This is the time when one is given the privilege of a 30-minute walk to school in sub-zero temperatures, with a 30-minute trudge home in the dark after a long day. It’s been four months since winter began, and it’ll be two more until it’s over. The firewood is being rationed to keep the house at a barely livable temperature, a steamy 50 degrees, and colds are so rampant that people lose half their body weight in phlegm each day. Yet, however dull Vermont may seem to students and teachers as they wrap themselves in layer after layer of flannel, make no mistake, today is the beginning of an era. Today is the day when Isaac (that’s me) starts his job of putting smiles on grim faces as the reader of the morning announcements.

“But Isaac, that job is super boring! You just read what’s written on a piece of paper,” is what an uninformed person might say, someone who obviously doesn’t know about my passion for annoying the tired and melancholic with smiling positivity. While expression and humor has not historically been a part of this process, and while ad-libbing has been strictly advised against, I go for it anyway. And why not? The worst possible outcome involves only a stern lecture and an expulsion from the job.

Fortunately, there is not much going on this week, which means I have some wiggle room with what I can say. The loud buzz of the intercom whines throughout the school, and the silent apprehension of the day is met, somewhat unexpectedly, with a greeting of 20 “yo’s” and a long, breathy pause. I artfully maneuver someone else’s writing into my own words, keeping the original intent but supplementing the significant lack of humor with a few one-liners. I conclude by reminding everyone that just because the weather is miserable today does not mean that we have to be as well.

Luckily, the principal loves it. And despite the fact that I urge everyone to interrupt my history teacher’s classes to wish him a happy birthday, I get to keep my job for another day. I have people coming up to me left and right, telling me that I made them smile. When I hear that, I smile back.

For the rest of the month, I work to make sure that people hear my message: even though we are at the time when school and winter are beginning to seem endless, there are still reasons to grin. I urge people to attend basketball games or sign up for spring sports. I announce birthdays and other special events. Before every day, I make sure I have a message that will make people think, “you know, today might not be so bad after all.” After my month ends, the announcements have been changed. The next readers tell jokes or riddles, or sing songs and invite others to sing with them. I watch the announcements evolve from an unfortunate but necessary part of the day to a positive and inspiring event. It is now more than just a monotonous script; it becomes a time to make sure that everyone has at least one thing to smile about.

Life shouldn’t have to be a dreary winter day; it should be the satisfaction of a good saxophone solo or the joy of seeing one’s friends every day at school. It is the enthusiasm of a biology teacher, the joy of a sports victory, and even the warm messages of a disembodied voice on the intercom. I use that message to help freshman feel less nervous at their first race or to encourage my friend to continue taking solos in jazz band. And in the most dismal time of year, I use that message in the daily announcements.

One day this year, as I was walking by my perpetually empty locker, I was struck by an idea. I cannot identify what sparked its conception, but as my idea started to grow, thinking of possible solutions and analyzing and assessing feasibility issues began to consume me. My father calls this a “designer’s high,” and it was very familiar to me. I’ve experienced it often while collaborating with my robotics team, and in the hours I’ve spent with my father on design concepts for his prefabricated homes. Still, nothing I had worked on before was similar to the feeling this “out of the box” idea had triggered.

Growing strawberries in a high school locker seemed fairly simple at first. Despite knowing that this is not the typical habitat for strawberry plants, I knew from my green-thumbed mother that strawberries are among the easiest fruits to grow. Many students and teachers became interested in my project, yet were skeptical of my botanical prowess and quick to conclude that a plant could not possibly receive its basic necessities in a locker, which didn’t have proper ventilation, was hot and humid, and was shielded from both sunlight and any source of water. Still, I was determined to make this work. The unfriendly habitat and logistical obstacles did not deter me.

My horticultural roots stem from my mother and elementary level biology. It wasn’t until this year that my knowledge expanded beyond this casual level into a realm where biology, chemistry, and physics found beautiful, synergistic intersections. I was determined to apply what I had learned and got to work.

Due to the lack of electricity and direct sunlight, I decided to use a solar panel paired with a light sensor on the outside of my locker to power a strong, blue LED light, which is best for photosynthesis and plant growth. A friend taught me how to solder and helped me create the solar panel setup, which turns on the blue light only when it is dark outside so the plants experience the proper light cycles. I also set up a system to slowly water the plants automatically. This involved a series of drip bottles—which another friend had for his old, now deceased, pet guinea pig—arranged to drip into each other and then onto the soil.

Having addressed the issues of light and water, I focused on the need to circulate air. Leaving the door closed would provide essentially no circulation and would create a hot and moist environment, making the plants more susceptible to mold. After experimenting with various designs and a 3D printed prototype, I came up with an extension of the latching mechanism on the inside of my locker, which I called the “strawberry jamb.” The jamb, which I cut using our school’s CNC router, sufficiently boosts airflow by allowing the door to remain ajar about two inches while still maintaining the integrity of the existing locking mechanism. I made a beautiful wooden box, emblazoned with the laser-cut engraving “Strawberry Fields Forever” and provided proper drainage onto a tray inside the locker to avoid water damage to school property. The strawberry plants are now growing in my partially open locker providing a topic of conversation and much commentary from students walking by.

What began as a seemingly improbable idea fed my passion for creative thinking and mechanical engineering. This project not only allowed me to practically apply isolated academic principles I had studied, but it also pushed me to traverse multiple disciplines to creatively solve problems. Furthermore, it’s uniqueness beckoned for community input and collaboration, allowing me to access resources to achieve fiscally responsible solutions and ultimate success. For me, it was invigorating to propel a project that many deemed impossible into the realm of possible. I intend to continue to explore and invent because only then are new realities possible.

“On and off,” I squealed as I fiddled with every remote control device in the house—from the TV to my RC toys. For hours, I strove to unravel the connection between the wires, circuits, and switches that “magically” activated these appliances. Although my ruminations did not provide immediate explanations, they spurred my imagination and fueled my fascination for electronics.

Later on, I turned my attention toward circuit configurations, which I explored through AP Physics and LC’s Robotics Team. My design, assembly, and programming capabilities compelled me to identify new applications for my skills. With Cooper Union’s Summer STEM Program, I explored other engineering branches through the development a hydraulic-powered Rube Goldberg Marble Machine. These lessons sparked my curiosity for renewable energy and led to the creation of a self-powered hydraulic ram prototype capable of delivering water to isolated communities, like my hometown in Thai Binh, without using electricity. Although my contraption is not perfect, these variegated episodes widened my perception of Electrical Engineering, its mission, and my role in the field.

My experiences also helped me see that the essence of engineering lies in serving social needs. As an Electrical Engineering major and History of Science & Technology (HOST) minor, I will harness JHU’s multidimensional platform to fulfill my purpose as engineer and citizen.

My quest begins with an introduction to the fundamental building blocks of engineering. Courses like “Digital Systems Fundamentals” unravel important concepts in logic and design that are applicable to more advanced research initiatives. Meanwhile lectures in “Introduction to Renewable Energy Engineering” unlock ways to improve Vietnam’s outdated energy sources, opening new opportunities for other industries to grow with the new technology.

Because engineering does not exist in a vacuum, a HOST minor will complement my work by helping me understand the sociopolitical, cultural, and ethical issues that drive scientific developments. Equipped with this holistic vision, I will be able to adopt technically-sound yet socially responsible methodologies toward the solution of different problems.

Beyond the classroom, JHU’s legacy as America’s first research university merges theory with practice, transforming abstraction into reality. The Spur Scholar or Provost Awards facilitate cooperation with faculty and in-depth exploration of various interests. Similarly, student-led initiatives like Hopkins Baja promote teamwork and the active exchange of ideas with peers of diverse intellectual and social backgrounds. Alongside my teammates, I will work toward the perfection of nimble race cars. Furthermore, internships and the Vredenburg Scholarship will expand my career choices and ease my transition into the workforce.

Having served as prefect, residential assistant, and student council advocate I will join the Student Government Association. Given my experiences with poverty and inequality in Vietnam, I will also my share leadership and mentorship skills to empower underprivileged children in the Baltimore vicinity through involvement with Alternative Learning Coaches.

A JHU education integrates intellectual and personal lessons that will alleviate Vietnam’s and the world’s needs. With the creation of effective, affordable, and sustainable engineering solutions, I hope to make a difference in the 21st century.

“Do you have body bags? The leak-proof kind…we need as many as you can spare!”

My shoulders slumped as the voice on the phone offered me camera bags instead. I was sixteen and had just returned from an infectious diseases course at Emory University, where my final presentation was on Ebola. Within weeks, the first infected American arrived at Emory for treatment. Our country panicked, while thousands lay dying in Liberia, Guinea, and Sierra Leone, their last visions strangers in spacesuits. I ached for the people, especially the children, who were dying alone, and I needed to help. Drawing on my new knowledge of Ebola’s pathology, I had an idea that I thought might work.

Ebola Kits. Rubber gloves, masks, and bleach, shrink-wrapped together inside a sturdy bucket, instructions in pictures to bridge the languages of Mende, French, Krio, Fula, and Susu. While the kits contained only the bare necessities, they would allow people to care for family and neighbors without inviting the spread of Ebola. Doing nothing was genocide, with generations of families disappearing overnight. The images haunted me, lifeless bodies in dirt, oblivious to the flies swarming around them, as everyone watched from a safe distance. I pitched my idea to The Afya Foundation, a global health NGO I have worked with since the 2010 Haiti earthquake. I was on a mission. Ebola kits in every village. Easy to assemble and ship. Potential to save thousands. While I received an enthusiastic response to my idea, Afya’s team sent me on a different mission: obtaining body bags, the unfortunate reality of people who were invisible in a world that waited far too long to see them.

I spent two weeks calling body bag suppliers after school. Treatment centers were desperate, wrapping bodies in garbage bags with duct tape and tossing them mindlessly into the ground. It was disrespectful, even inhumane, because West African burials include washing, touching, and kissing the bodies. Without these rituals, West Africans believe the spirit of the deceased can never be at peace. Culture and medicine were colliding head-on, and there was no easy solution. While Ebola made these rituals lethal, at least body bags allowed people to be safely buried and not treated like garbage. After many failed attempts, I reached a funeral home director who donated body bags from his own supply.

Public health is one of the most pressing and complex issues we face as a global society, and it is my passion. I am disturbed that not all lives are valued equally. I cannot accept the fact that children die from preventable diseases, simply because they are born in countries with less wealth and stability. In America, we are curing cancer with a mutated poliovirus strain, but we haven’t eradicated polio in Afghanistan and Pakistan. We come together in crises, highly publicized earthquakes and tsunamis, but we haven’t come together to solve the problem of basic human health, a right for every person on earth. Ensuring our health is complicated and daunting and requires the mass coordination of agencies and governments to build sustainable infrastructures with local citizens in charge. I want to be part of the solution and am engaging in public health in every way I can: in the field, in the classroom, and through global health charities.

From Yonkers to Accra, I have met the most amazing people from all walks of life, and I feel a deep and stirring sense of purpose in my global health work. I am empowered and proud of my contributions, but I also experience humility at a level that transforms me. I am blessed that I have found my passion, one that combines my intellectual curiosity, determination, and my moral compass. I am optimistic for the future and the journey that lies ahead, as I do everything in my power to make basic healthcare a reality for the world.

Goal: 40,000.

I wrote because it made me somebody else—somebody who mattered.

The power of writing, I believed, existed solely in one’s ability to pursue the sublime. So I wrote to create different, better manifestations of my life.

I grew up dreaming and writing (and thinking they were the same) about being a Hermione Granger with Harry as my sidekick battling twenty Voldemorts (twenty!); my stories were dynamic.

I was cool.

Status: 5,000.

My mom once joked that I should audition for the role of Cho Chang. I threw a chopstick at her. Cho Chang was weak, so terribly weak that Harry dumped her.

I knew why she said it though—I rarely existed in books and when I did, I was the Cho Chang, the inconsequential, insignificant Asian girl who could never assert herself.

In a fit of spite, I killed my Hermione, realizing I could never be her.

Status: 1,000.

Somebody once told me to read The Joy Luck Club but I never bothered. A book about a bunch of Cho Changs couldn’t possibly be sublime.

Instead, I buried myself in the books hidden under my bed, away from Mom, about girls in high school who didn’t do anything besides fall in love. So, to improve my own story, I decided to fall in love with the first boy to call me pretty.

I was satisfied.

Status: 8,000.

Living life vicariously was comfortable and easy.

Perhaps that’s why, at fifteen, I paid no mind to my grandpa’s deteriorating health or my dad’s anxiety. Because these were not the kinds of pain I had ever read about, I didn’t find them good enough to write about.

So, I went looking for better inspiration—for more mockeries of love, ways to validate my insecurities, and priorities that shouldn’t have been labeled as such.

It was all so cool that I couldn’t stop writing about it.

Status: 11,000.

During this magnificent, glorious streak of writing, dreaming, and pretending, I learned that 40,000 words make a novel.

I had to do it. Once I get published, everybody would get a taste of my sublimity. Mom and Dad would be so impressed. I’d probably even become famous! Hence, I became fervently obsessed with word count and cared for little else.

Status: 15,000.

But then I turned seventeen and finally began to process what I had experienced years earlier. I had been witness to my grandpa, reduced to flesh and bones (but hardly any flesh), barely clinging to life in a maggot-infested hospital in Dengzhou—something I had forced myself to forget.

Suddenly, I couldn’t keep pretending that crafting a fictitious version of my life on paper could replace what is real.

I erased everything.

Status: 0.

I started over.

I wrote about my real thoughts, my family, the times I was happy, and the times I was not. I wrote about my grandpa.

I showed Dad. I thought he’d be proud.

He was not.

What? You wrote this? Why? What are you trying to prove?

Nothing.

For the first time, nothing. I’m just writing about life.

But you should keep that private. It’s too revealing and distressing. It’s not…

Sublime.

I know.

It’s. Not. Sublime.

I crumbled.

Then came the summer before my senior year. I finally read The Joy Luck Club.

In the entire novel, I didn’t come across a single Cho Chang. What took the place of sublimity, instead, were real people. Mothers and daughters who breathe and hurt and love.

I laughed and cried and began to write.

Status: Not counting anymore.

I don’t write to create the next Hermione, become the best cliché, or impress Mom and Dad. I write to express the thoughts that are most real to me, ones I cannot confine any longer.

I am real and I care about being real—that is my power, not just as a writer but as a person.

I am a dynamic figure, often seen scaling walls and crushing ice. I have been known to remodel train stations on my lunch breaks, making them more efficient in the area of heat retention. I translate ethnic slurs for Cuban refugees, I write award-winning operas, I manage time efficiently. Occasionally, I tread water for three days in a row.

I woo women with my sensuous and godlike trombone playing, I can pilot bicycles up severe inclines with unflagging speed, and I cook Thirty-Minute Brownies in twenty minutes. I am an expert in stucco, a veteran in love, and an outlaw in Peru.

Using only a hoe and a large glass of water, I once single-handedly defended a small village in the Amazon Basin from a horde of ferocious army ants. I play bluegrass cello, I was scouted by the Mets, I am the subject of numerous documentaries. When I'm bored, I build large suspension bridges in my yard. I enjoy urban hang gliding. On Wednesdays, after school, I repair electrical appliances free of charge.

I am an abstract artist, a concrete analyst, and a ruthless bookie. Critics worldwide swoon over my original line of corduroy evening wear. I don't perspire. I am a private citizen, yet I receive fan mail. I have been caller number nine and have won the weekend passes. Last summer I toured New Jersey with a traveling centrifugal-force demonstration. I bat 400. My deft floral arrangements have earned me fame in international botany circles. Children trust me.

I can hurl tennis rackets at small moving objects with deadly accuracy. I once read Paradise Lost, Moby Dick, and David Copperfield in one day and still had time to refurbish an entire dining room that evening. I know the exact location of every food item in the supermarket. I have performed several covert operations for the CIA. I sleep once a week; when I do sleep, I sleep in a chair. While on vacation in Canada, I successfully negotiated with a group of terrorists who had seized a small bakery. The laws of physics do not apply to me.

I balance, I weave, I dodge, I frolic, and my bills are all paid. On weekends, to let off steam, I participate in full-contact origami. Years ago I discovered the meaning of life but forgot to write it down. I have made extraordinary four course meals using only a mouli and a toaster oven. I breed prizewinning clams. I have won bullfights in San Juan, cliff-diving competitions in Sri Lanka, and spelling bees at the Kremlin. I have played Hamlet, I have performed open-heart surgery, and I have spoken with Elvis.

But I have not yet gone to college.

She struggled to find the seat belt buckle, her left hand frantically pushing down on different
places on the seat. She giggled nervously, but graciously smiled to hide her panic. After a few
failed attempts, my mom pressed the button for her. The seat belt snapped back into place.
Gram had been diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease when I was about eight years old. The
progressive disease hindered her ability to use silverware, remember facts, and put on a seatbelt.
As Gram began to “lose her words”, where she knew what she wanted to say but could not say it
out loud, I witnessed my family endlessly guessing words so that she could finish telling her story.
As time went on, Gram remembered fewer words, but every time she spoke, we all continued to
throw out random ones, even though it became increasingly difficult to do so. This small example
caused me to realize my family’s value of pushing through. Despite Gram’s condition getting
progressively worse, we were still determined to guarantee that Gram had the best life that she
possibly could.
In my own life, I see how I have adopted my family’s notion of pushing through, from running cross
country to pursuing both nonfiction writing and math. Cross country would be impossible without
this mentality. After the first mile, my legs begin to ache, each breath is harder, and doubt creeps
in whether I can keep up with the next girl. Telling myself that I can maintain the pace and keep
going stems from the lesson of pushing through even when times are difficult, or in the case of
cross country, pushing through even when one wants to stop.
SAMPLE ESSAY NUMBER 1
My intent of combining nonfiction writing with mathematics has also forced me to push through
people’s judgements and warnings of not being able to find employment. My determination has
allowed me to curtail people’s questions of whether I am interested in STEM or the liberal arts,
and has enabled me to find a way to engage in both subjects.
My mother and I continued to push through every Saturday morning when we visited, with more
tasks and responsibilities to take care of each time. But, as each stay got longer, each
conversation with Gram got shorter. Eventually, she was not able to speak at all. The
conversations then turned into ones with my grandpa, where we would talk about the weather,
the Patriots game, and the neighborhood gossip so that he could also have the best life.
My family’s value of pushing through and taking on the heartbreaking challenge of caring for Gram
has allowed me to take on a similar mentality when I face obstacles in my own life. Not only has
caring for Gram taught me the lesson of pushing through, but also the importance of growing and
changing. As my family witnessed Gram’s condition worsening, we changed with her. We
purchased sippy cups so that she could drink without causing a spill, we coached her as she
grappled with taking her daily pills, and after long and tireless debates, hired Cathy who came in
several times a week to fold laundry and get Gram dressed. Adapting to the countless problems
that came with Alzheimer's disease allowed us as a family to learn and change for the better. I see
those changes reflected in changes I have made in my personal life. When I tackle adversity head
on and struggle through the process, I know it often leads to self growth. My determination and
adaptability have become the two most important strengths that I utilize as I continue to face new
challenges in my life.

Narcissistic. Selfish. Egotistical. Three adjectives used to describe me, and from who I used to
think was the most credible source, my mother.
In the ninth grade, an unintentional conversation about religion with a few of my friends ignited
the spark that set me on the journey to self-discovery. As we talked about different beliefs, one
of my friends said that “an agnostic person does not accept or deny the belief in God.” The words
struck me with a realization that needed to be acknowledged. They reached into the farthest
depths of my soul and opened my eyes to who I truly was.
When the realization struck me that I did not need my mother’s acceptance, the world obtained
new colors. I did not have to continue going to church, praying to a god I was not sure existed. I
did not have to fake being happy with things that made me feel invisible. I no longer needed to be
what my mother, nor the church, deemed the ideal woman. I could finally be myself.
I submerged myself into the world of Agnosticism. Every article I read reassured me that this is
what I was. Through online agnostic communities, I found the courage to tell my family and
religious friends about my beliefs. My friends' lack of surprise and immediate acceptance of me
brought me comfort. When the time came to tell my mother, I could not muster up the words. All
I knew was that I could not bear another Sunday service. I grew exceedingly tired of feeling
silenced and constrained by beliefs that were not mine. My self-identity was nonexistent. I could
fee the words suffocating me. I had to release them.
“No estoy segura si creo en dios-”
“Que?”
“Creo que soy agnostica.”
“¿Eres una impía?”
“No mami, solo no estoy segura. No me gustan todas las reglas.”
“¡Porque eres una athia!”
I felt as though a weight had been removed, but a new one was placed.
We did not talk for a few days. On Sunday, as she prepared for church, I laid in bed. Before
leaving, she opened my bedroom door and we stared at each other. She left without a word and
disappointment filled her face. I would soon become familiar with that look.
As our relationship deteriorated, I decided to stay at my father’s house more. He had always
encouraged me to be myself, which my mother saw as one of the reasons I turned out “this
way”(Agnostic). From a young age, my father allowed me to learn how to do things I was
interested in, like change the oil of a car or assemble a desk. He even challenged me by asking me
to fix things around his house. When I took my first course, an Introduction to Computer
Hardware, he assured me of my success with his smile. I did not feel the full extent of his
unadulterated acceptance until I began taking programming classes in another city. He would
leave work early twice a week for two months, all so I could learn to code in Python.

I was not sure I would pursue a career in engineering until I was part of the Spira Summer
Engineering Camp at Brown University. Learning about the different types of engineering and
getting to experiment with them emanated from me a thrill that coding could simply not measure
up to. Engineering allowed me to put all of my skills to the test. I could build and program
something for a specific purpose, and then alter it to fit other needs. My curiosity roamed free
and I uncovered and explored the darkest chasms of my mind, lighting them up as I went along.
Inquisitive. Resilient. Diligent. These are the three adjectives I would use to describe myself. I am
the only person who may define who I am.

My mother smilingly claims that she started reading to me while I was in utero, which is why I was
born with a passion for books. The hundreds of books I have read since my earliest childhood have
brought me adventure, provided solace, and encouraged me to reflect on life and the life
experiences of others. I have lived vicariously through the experiences of the many characters I
have encountered.
The summer of my junior year, I decided to do an internship at a local independent bookstore and
truly began to appreciate the richness reading has brought to my life as I recommended novels to
customers and shelved treasured childhood stories. The children’s book buyer with whom I worked
often offered ideas for my next read. She proposed the young adult novel, The Sun is Also a Star,
which detailed the story of two lovers with striking cultural differences as one character faces
deportation. I devoured the book, finishing it within a day. The next day, my eyes gleamed as I
recounted to the buyer how much the book resonated with me. It reminded me of the cultural
differences of the students in my own high school. With a seventy-five percent minority
population, my positive views about our multicultural society were confirmed. Much like the two
main characters in the novel, rather than divide us, the diversity of my urban high school has
made my friendships stronger.
Since my youth, books like The Sun is Also a Star have opened my outlook on the world. As an only
child living with a single mother with a full-time teaching job, I frequently stayed home for hours
on end with my mom in the peace of our home. The faint background noice of her feverish typing
on the computer or her brisk cutting of vegetables for each night's dinner set a simple yet tranquil
atmosphere. I took advantage of out two towering bookshelves and a library less than a mil from
my home. From the day I began to read by myself, I spend many of my spare hours at home
reading captivating novels in one sitting, utterly incapable of putting a book down once I became
immersed in it. My childhood reading experiences motivated me to seek the summer internship. It
was truly fulfilling to work with others who shared a similar passion for one of my favorites
hobbies.
On my final day at the bookstore, I was shelving a stack of children’s books when I noticed the
vibrant cover of Rosie Revere, Engineer. The picture book was filled with toys and gadgets Rosie
created during her downtime. Suddenly, similar memories from my childhood were rekindled. I
remembered impressing myself by creating a paper roller coaster for my marbles. I then recalled
the excitement I felt as I developed innovative paths for my magnetic trains to drive along. I saw a
younger version of myself in Rosie, but I did not realize the significance of her story until a few
months later.
At the start of my junior year, I began exploring ideas in anticipation of my school’s mandatory
research project. For one semester, students were required to research and write a paper on a
topic of their choice and finally present it to several judges. Remembering my admiration of
Rosie, I researched recent experiments related to engineering. I began to pursue articles about
the potential of stem cells to engineer organs. As my interest in the topic grew, I realized that my
passion for biomedical engineering, which I hope to study over the next four years. The

experiences I have gained from reading have contributed to my understanding not only of the
world but also of myself. I know that I will be a life-long reader, and I aspire to benefit the world
by continuing to read and invent.

Being from an immigrant family means it is important to seek out resources to navigate the world.
I would never have been the person I am today without my parents’ support. They have always
motivated me to take on life's challenges. My father worked a night shift job. My mother struggled
to learn English to make sure my sister and I entered pre-K speaking English. I am thankful to my
parents for providing me the resources I needed as a child.
During my coming-of-age, I sought to seek resources myself. For a couple of years, I spent time
doing activities such as going to public events, learning how to talk and ask questions to strangers,
and riding the public bus on my own. Looking back, although they seemed very simplistic
activities, these activities gave me the push I needed to become a more social and independent
individual. But sometimes it was necessary for me to ask my parents for help. My mother asked
our state representative to refer me for the State House page position. I am grateful for being just
a teenager and now having one of the most prestigious jobs anyone would desire.
With the resources I was able to use for self-improvement, it was time to help my community as
well. The whole state was in shock when a report came out that my city’s school district is among
the worst in the country. I wanted to do something about it. I decided to team up with my friends
to write a letter to many high-ranking officials addressing these concerns. But even then, just a
random letter petitioning for school aid was not going to be enough. We were able to utilize some
important resources, two other state representatives, to co-sign our letter.
The school superintendent, city mayor, state governor, and two congressmen wrote back eagerly
to cooperate with us to fix our broken school system. We brought our action to the attention of
the local newspaper and they published a story about our efforts to change the system. It led to a
great opportunity to discuss policy with the superintendent on a periodic basis, and I have learned
many things. People tend to blame the school department for the city’s education problems. It is
completely understandable. They oversee the school system but this is a problem that extends
beyond their authority. Education laws, funding, and regulations are administered by the local and
state government. We sought to help the superintendent out by drafting state bills which would
reform our education laws so they would be upgraded for the 21st century classroom. We sought
to help the school district by working with a youth community organization, so we could be much
closer to the Providence students, their parents, and their community. As our organization
expands, I sought to recruit my friends from my school district to our team because of their
resourcefulness.
When one is trying to become a better person, from being part of policy change or simply being
able to live on their own, one cannot do it alone. In moments that one asks for help, it can come
from unexpected sources. I would not have become a bright student without my mother’s effort in
my early years in life. I would not have been more independent if it were not for the motivation
that was instilled in me. I would not have gotten a job at the State House if it were not for the
connection with an elected official. And I would certainly not be helping fixing the city’s school
district if it were not for the help of my friends.

It was the first day back to school after the Christmas break, and I was excited to see my friends.
From my room, I could hear the meteorologist on the radio in the living room saying that it was
going to be a beautiful, sunny day. On my way to school that morning, I could see the hope of a
promising day in the eyes of the people. It was one of those days where everything was in sync
and everybody seemed connected.
After a long day at school, I fell asleep on the bus on my way home. I woke up to what felt like a
train approaching; the loud rumbling emerged from the ground shaking my bus as if it were a
child's toy. When it finally stopped, my ten-year-old self was confused and oblivious to what was
going on. Traffic came to a standstill while thousands of people poured out onto the street,
screaming and crying for help. As houses crumbled, the air felt heavy and smelled of thick dust
and blood. Bodies were piled in the back of a truck and rushed to a nearby hospital; the injured
hoped for medical attention even though they knew the healthcare system was non-existent. On
January 12, 2010, an earthquake of 7.0 magnitude made me feel powerless in the face of
destruction and suffering. Witnessing all those people suffering and dying that day ignited a fire in
me to help people that are in desperate need.
I was born and raised in Haiti in a single-parent household. I have witnessed my mother working
tirelessly so that my three sisters and I can have something to look forward to in life. Her
resilience is a quality that I hope I inherited. Even after the devastating earthquake, I lived for six
years in Haiti. Although I did not lose my life and my family was alive, the weight of my mother’s
worries about my future were felt in my daily life. I lost hope of being able to continue my
education because the country's situation worsened. Every day became a constant reminder of
how blessed I was to even be alive. Finally in 2016, I had the opportunity to come to the U.S. in
search of a better life.
Coming to the U.S and adapting to a new culture and environment was the biggest challenge of my
young life. I thought that knowing a few English words was going to help me integrate into this
new environment. Reality hit me hard when I was told to repeat the ninth and tenth grades. What
I learned in Haiti was not enough to earn credits in Providence because I could neither speak nor
understand English. The language barrier became my most difficult challenge—one I thought I
would never be able to overcome. Giving up crossed my mind many times; self-doubt and
frustration filled my head, but then I remembered that was not the first time I overcame an
obstacle. I remembered the promise I made to myself after the darkest hour of January 12th—to
become a nurse, and care for people to make a difference in their lives. I realized how important
learning the language would be for me to attend college and fulfill that promise.
Realizing I would need English to help others motivated me to become multilingual, to work
tirelessly and break the intergenerational cycle of illiteracy in my family. This motivation will
carry me through college and keep me grounded in the face of challenges. Nursing will give me
the opportunity to go back to Haiti and help make a change to the corrupt healthcare system.
Through my work as a nurse, I hope that I will be able to honor the thousands who died on January
12, 2010.

Community service isn’t just words, but an opportunity in life to contribute one’s time to helping others and making a difference in society; and thus a better place to live for all. Throughout my years of school, I have been fortunate enough to see hands on, how sharing what I’ve learned in my life with others, makes a directly positive influence in their lives. Music and academics, along with my Christian faith, have always been at the forefront of my life and has educated and inspired me to enjoy serving in the community.

Throughout my years of school, I have increased my knowledge of music and have shared what I’ve learned by performing in the metropolitan Detroit area. I have had the opportunity to perform with different bands at Senior Citizen Homes for their holiday parties, awards banquets and summer picnics. Through school, I have learned how to prepare, set-up rehearsals, and organize music so that the event runs smoothly. The Seniors Citizens are always very appreciative and truly enjoy the experience. I have helped set up games, sing and dance with them and we all have a very good time. I am also the leader of our school’s Jazz Combo. We have performed not only at senior citizen events, but also at restaurants, churches, holiday and retirement parties, and various fundraisers. Additionally, I am a member of the Detroit Symphony’s Civic Jazz Orchestra, a youth program in Detroit. Through this venue, I’ve learned new ideas and techniques from the mentors, teachers and students that are from all different parts of out community; once again serving in the Detroit area through this group as well. In all these instances, if it wasn’t for my education, I would not have been able to donate my time.

However, as much as I love music, it’s not my only focus in my life. I have always aspired to have a career in the medical field. Academically, I have been working diligently to prepare myself for my future. By taking honors and AP classes now, it has already allowed me to do some community work with respect teaching. I have tutored younger students and helped them improve in their own studies. As I move forward in my life, I hope to attain knowledge in medicine and eventually become a doctor. Once again, as I educate myself in this new field, I hope to give back by serving in my community and perhaps different communities throughout the world.

I know serving in the community will always be part of my goal in life, whether it is musically, academically or my new venture of medicine. I have a lot to learn, but once I become more educated, I will also increase my ability to share what I’ve learned. Donating my time to a community is something I will always pursue, because sometimes people just need support and it’s what life is all about.

The word “amazing” is defined as “to overwhelm with surprise or sudden wonder; to astonish greatly, to bewilder,” and lastly, “to perplex”. In my opinion, however, the word is extremely overused. To me, something truly amazing takes your breath away or leaves you speechless. But who am I kidding; I say it all the time.

My trip though, my 8 day, 9 night trip to Appalachia, really changed my whole mind-set. I don’t know if it was seeing the faces of strangers light up as we finished tearing out their moldy, bug-infested flooring, or if it was installing insulation and painting their children’s bedroom, things they said they would never have been able to afford if it weren’t for us giving up our summers to work.

Or maybe it was Norma’s amazing story. Norma lives in a small trailer, her family depends on her husband’s salary as a mechanic, and she watches over 6 children ages 9 months to 12 years. Some of them are hers, and some of them are her oldest daughter’s. Her daughter made some bad choices and is unable to raise them, so Norma took on that responsibility.

A few years ago, Norma was diagnosed with Breast and Uterine Cancer. She prayed continuously for the Lord to cure her. When she walked into her first treatment, she told the nurse to re-scan her because she was certain the Lord had cured her. While the nurse protested, she respected Norma’s wish. Sure enough, after double and triple checking, the doctors could find no trace of Cancer still in her body. If that is not a testimony of faith then I don’t know what is.

Another family that touched me has 5 people, 4 cats and a dog in their small trailer. Their home was in desperate need of new flooring, a roof, and a front door; all things I take for granted. But it wasn’t the work that we did on their house that was really incredible. It was the personal relationships we developed with the family. John, the head of the household, didn’t show up until after lunchtime, as he had gone to a food pantry to receive handouts and had decided to stay and volunteer his time afterwards. When John arrived home, I helped him carry in groceries and he told me how the Lord is working in his life. A month prior, a friend of his had randomly invited him to church, so he went and prayed. A few weeks later, Appalachia Service Project showed up asking if they could fix his trailer free of charge. John told me that to him, volunteering was his way of giving back for all of the blessings he has received in his life.

The family also had two daughters, one going into 6th grade, Abby, and a two-year old, Lily, who could really wreak havoc. Since the 2 year old is in constant need of attention, it was easy to notice that Abby was desperate for her own spotlight and needed a friend. Even though I went to their house to give them a new bathroom floor, I left Abby with not only a new friendship, but she learned how to shuffle cards and play Miss Mary Mac, things she had always wanted to do. I enjoyed my time with Abby. We danced and sang like idiots to the Disney channel, we jumped on her trampoline for hours, and we just enjoyed each other’s company. She taught me that friendship and a smile can go a long way.

The difference between a foreign mission trip and a domestic mission trip is that while they provide political barriers to overcome, receiving help from other Americans inspires unity.

I will never forget the families we met. Their ability to open their arms to complete strangers regardless of our backgrounds is something truly beautiful. No prejudice, only love. They live their lives as if they were Jesus, and they don’t even realize it.

While I left Pike County, Kentucky with what seemed like 100 mosquito bites and a nice cowboy hat; Pike County left me with hope and a realization that it isn’t always the big things that matter, just as long as we have our family and friends by our sides. And to me, that is truly amazing.

For as long as I can remember service to others has been an integral part of my life and has resulted in some of my favorite adolescent memories. I do not think that there is anything more satisfying than what you get in return when you volunteer to help younger children, members of the elder community, or anyone who can benefit from a skill you have. Participation in programs which provide little acts of kindness that are caring and meaningful to others is much easier and rewarding than I originally thought. To be honest the act of providing service to others is a gift that I have learned gives both ways and has been instilled in me throughout my life.

My first memory of being given the opportunity to provide help to others is when I was in second grade and I was picked to be a study buddy. It still makes me smile inside to picture that toothless grin looking up at me when my new kindergarten buddy sounded out or spelled a word correctly after our time together. I was an eager volunteer every subsequent year because what started as a way to get out of class became an activity I looked forward to as much as recess. Later in elementary school I was lucky enough to be picked to go monthly to the Meridian retirement community to read, play a game or talk with my much older friend. I realize now that my investment of time and companionship pales in comparison to how the experiences helped me to overcome shyness, develop a sense of confidence, and gave me satisfaction that I had made a difference in someone’s life.

During middle school my parents further pushed me to get involved with community service. They told me it was a great way to meet new people and stay busy. I was involved with a Christian youth group called Young Life which promoted participation is various community service activities. In addition, my mother was always encouraging us to go through our clothes and belongings for donations to the Disabled Veterans, the Lupus Foundation or Healing Minds. During this time, our family also became involved with the Table Mountain Animal Shelter and we have adopted and take care of 8 animals to include a bird, two cats and five dogs. I realize that I was the recipient of the gifts of life-long friends, a clean closet and the most amazing display of excitement and love every single time I walk in the front door. In addition, I know that keeping busy was a way to keep me from idle time and the participation in risky business that so many teens get involved in.

Throughout my high school years I was fortunate enough to come to the realization that participation in activities that give to others is not an infringement on my free time but rather an amazing memory waiting to be created. In my freshman year I was busy with sports, however, my mom offered me the chance to help out with her Gold Crown 7th grade basketball team. I was nervous at first, but before I knew it, I loved the chance to show off my skills and help the girls master fundamentals and learn plays in preparation for their high school team. It was fun to watch a group of unskilled players develop into a team that made it to the playoffs. I guess that is when I started to understand the pride that drove my mom to tears at every dance recital, graduation ceremony or great game I or my siblings were in.

As a sophomore I was involved in several community service activities. I was able to be a mentor to incoming freshman, volunteered to work at the Carnation Festival, and helped elementary school children in events at the JEFFCO Track and Field Day. It is an incredible feeling to be a part of creating the love for physical activity and achievement in athletes of the future.

My junior year presented new ideas for being involved with service to others. First, I was given the chance to be a peer counselor during school. This led to a leadership opportunity as I was selected to be a counselor at Outdoor Lab. Although being a counselor for a cabin full of 6th grade boys was exhausting, I learned I could be a great leader and role model by acting responsibly while taking them on night hikes, taking our turn in the mess hall and putting on entertaining skits for the students. It remains one of my favorite high school memories that is happily recalled each time I glace over the leather and bead “Mr. Wyser” name tag hanging from the corner of one of the certificates on my bedroom wall.

Also during my sophomore and junior years I was fortunate to be given the ultimate opportunity to give loving, caring and compassionate service to another human being when my family decided to provide in-home hospice care to my grandfather who was dying of melanoma cancer. As soon as we learned he was given less than three months to live, we immediately put everything on hold, packed up my bedroom and moved it to the basement so he could have my room, and we drove to Las Vegas and moved him to Colorado. At first I was hesitant to get involved as it was horrifying to watch the disease progress, however, watching his determination to live a good life and fight to the end gave me the strength to jump in and help. I drove him to the store or wherever he wanted to go, helped him dress the tumors that erupted, watched the strange wrestling matches on the Spanish station, and helped him eat, get to and from the bathroom and help change him and the bedding as he got progressively weaker. Although it was one of the scariest and most exhausting times of my life both physically and emotionally, I can say that is was also one of the most rewarding as well. Giving the gift of help to one you love and respect so much and helping to extend their life has given me an incredible strength and determination to survive and succeed regardless of what life throws at me. My grandfather passed away during my junior year but he left me a legacy of how to approach death respectfully, courageously, and humorously.

As a senior I have been involved in more anonymous service to others which is as satisfying as being recognized and thanked. During my four years as a varsity player on the basketball team I developed a knack for soliciting ads for our program from the businesses in Wheat Ridge. Although I was petrified at the thought of explaining how buying an ad could benefit these businesses and my mother had to force me to put on my WRHS sweatshirt or letterman’s jacket the first two years, I was so confident by me junior year that I was able to collect enough support to be able to offer credit earned to pay for three of my team mates’ fees for the season. This year I did the same, however, I did not let the players I earned credit for know that their fees had been paid. In return, I was so happy to know inside that three of my team mates were able to play the game I am so passionate about because of my contribution. I am grateful that I have been able to give to others as I have gained invaluable assets in return to include commitment, responsibility, kindness, patience, and confidence. However, the ultimate reward is the happiness that spreads with the grateful thank you smile you get in return for service to others. All of these experiences have led me to conclude that when it comes to community service the gift is in the giving because the return is often immeasurable as well as more rewarding than you can imagine.

As anyone contemplating college or graduate school knows, the financial costs of education can be overwhelming. Outreach work, community service, volunteerism, whatever word you choose to use can be an important addition to a scholarship application. Service work allows a person to step outside of their own community and see the world through different eyes. And though outreach work may be initially motivated by a personal desire to meet requirements of a specific need, the act of performing the work changes the person. Giving your time in service to others can be a tool to discover and experience different cultures and thus allow you the opportunity to make a difference in the lives of other people. And it will tell scholarship committees that you have an interest in something/someone besides yourself.

Motivation is an important component of succeeding. Motivation though without inspiration can leave an empty space in one's soul. I was initially motivated to go back to school because I wanted to further my nursing career. But I found my inspiration in a community located on the side of a mountain while doing medical mission work.

Though it would be easy to view this particular community as poor (using our definition of wealth) the people of the community of Cristo Salvador demonstrated to me the value of an education. I spent many years working with this population and my heart was touched by their willingness to care for each member of their community; for many of them, education was only a dream and it was inspiring to watch as they took different situations and turned these into learning opportunities. I realized that I could best help them by going back to school, and maybe, just maybe, I could return and work with them in a more meaningful way.

When I first started bringing medical teams to Cristo Salvador they had palm huts and dirt roads. Now there are cinder-block homes and the road is paved. I recently visited them and they proudly showed me their new school building—perched on the side of their mountain. They have a goal of starting a feeding program for their elderly and they have a day care. Their determination to make their community a better place has instilled in me the belief that with an education the world can be made a better place. And so in closing I leave you with this thought: motivation may get you through life—inspiration though changes lives.

College Admission Essay - You don’t have a soul. You are a soul. You have a body.” C.S. Lewis - He was a three-year-old boy who had been bitten by a dog. I looked down and could see part of his bone under the broken skin. Even I had to look away. Oddly enough, his eyes were dry and it was he who was comforting his mother. He would be just fine.

He was around forty, but not acting very grown-up. When I got there, he was arguing with the state trooper and telling his mother how much he hated her. He was a drinker, a smoker, and had obviously overdosed on some drug. But he would live, in some sense of the word.

Being a part of the Ellington Rescue Post has allowed me to see and feel a lot of things that most people are never able to experience in their lifetime. I was medically trained as an Emergency Medical Responder as a freshman and by the beginning of my sophomore year of high school I was riding on the ambulance regularly. Being in EMS is not like playing a sport; if you miss the shot, you do not just lose a game; you could lose a life. Being so young and being able to handle doing such a job is extremely uncommon, which is why so much is expected out of us. I have experienced what it is like to be depended on.

If you called 911, you probably would not expect someone my age to show up. Ellington Rescue Post has taught me how much I am capable of doing and showed me that if I have confidence in myself, I will not be second guessed.

She was barely past the age of sixty five and had been fighting cancer for about half that time. Her thin hands were shaking and her eyes were wet, but she did not say a word. She held my hand the entire ride to the hospital. She knew she was going to die, but she had already accepted that fact. She had her time to live, and she had done so.

Riding on the ambulance has revealed to me that sometimes the choices that person has made has led them to their position, and sometimes life just hits them the wrong way; but it is not what happens to during your life that really matters, it is what you do to help improve the lives of others. I know that during my time with the Ellington Rescue Post, I have made a difference.

One of the proudest accomplishments of my life was earning my college degree, despite the fact that my early adulthood
pointed in the opposite direction, beginning with my marriage at the age of 19. Throughout the 1990s I lived as one of the
"working poor," someone who slipped through the cracks of supposedly historic prosperity. By the age of 25 I was divorced and
frustrated with menial, low-paying jobs: clerk, receptionist, and housecleaner. There is nothing like scrubbing someone else's
toilet to inspire one with determination toward obtaining an education. Because of my absolute commitment toward earning my
degree, I got a flexible shift at a retail warehouse which enabled me to acquire my degree while supporting myself financially.
Enrolled at the local community college, I experienced a different world opening up to me; excited by a new encouraging
environment, I excelled academically. I learned that if I tried hard, I could succeed; if I wanted something badly enough, I
possessed the ability to take advantage of these opportunities. I worked a minimum 35-hour workweek for five years to put
myself through school without succumbing to the temptation of a student loan. I paid tuition up front with the money I earned.
It was the example of my mother, a Puerto Rican immigrant working diligently to provide for her family, who instilled a work
ethic into me that has stood me in good stead.
With a lifelong passion for history, I have developed an interest in the cultural history of early modern and modern Europeans,
especially women's history. The experiences of ordinary women fascinate me: how they constitute their world through popular
folk tales and literature; how the seemingly irrational paradoxes of the past to modern eyes are completely rational when taken
within the historical context; and finally, how these historical changes and transformations in culture constitute the present. I
enjoy studying the early modern period of English history, especially the Tudor- Stuart period, because of the tensions that
existed between medieval philosophies and the rising Enlightenment intellectualism. My influences have been diverse. I read
the popular historian Barbara Tuchman, not for her technical accuracy, but for her beautiful prose. Natalie Zemon Davis's
research inspires me in the way that she cleverly picks out fresh life from tired sources. And finally, Michel Foucault's
philosophies have profoundly influenced the way I write, for now I have a philosophical grounding that makes me highly
sensitive to my own biases. In fact, Foucault's post-structuralist matrix has been instrumental in shaping my current project
focusing on the 17th-century midwife Elizabeth Cellier. In this project, I am reexamining the current histories of English
midwifery using Cellier as a case study, detecting a decided bias embedded within them. The underlying assumption of these
histories is that pre-industrial professional women-and Cellier in particular- struggled against patriarchy and oppression from
the male medical community, when in fact Cellier's literature shows that she utilized the accepted discourses of patriarchy
available to her in her writing and turned them into useful tools of political and religious power.
As a student, I feel that my success lies in the fact that I approached my studies as if I were a professional (historian, not
student, that is). I always enrolled in the most challenging courses and worked with professors I felt were the most qualified in
my areas of interest. Never did I settle for an A- or B+. If I got one, I would ask what I could do to improve--and ultimately, I
utilized the advice to strengthen my work. My personal academic milestone occurred while I was completing a research seminar
on historical methods. This required course was taught by an Americanist-Dr. Julie Worth, director of the [school withheld]
history department-so our research topics were limited to American sources. I was able to work within my main interest, which
is marginalized women, while using the primary sources of The New York Times. The resulting paper, "Biologically Unsound:
Women, Murder, and the Insanity Plea in the Progressive Era" examined the preponderant use of the insanity plea for women
who went outside their "innate nature" and murdered, regardless of the circumstances which drove them to kill. Although the
topic was outside my focus, which is European history, this paper was selected for publication in the Phi Alpha Theta journal,
The Historian.
My focus as an undergraduate has always been with an eye toward graduate school and a career as a professional historian.
Aware of the rigors of graduate study, I have not only completed an undergraduate language requirement in Spanish, but I am
also currently enrolled in an accelerated French course. In addition, I have become active in the historical honor society, Phi
Alpha Theta, including serving as chapter president. During my tenure our chapter hosted the Phi Alpha Theta Regional
Conference, the largest regional conference in the nation. With the help of faculty adviser Dr. Judith Gaillard, I created the
conference sessions, chose appropriate student commentators for those sessions, and gave a keynote speech. The experience
taught me that I have a flair for organization as well as mediation. Under my leadership, our chapter also published its first
journal, and hosted a variety of campus activities. This year I am working with the Computer Society in order to establish a
Web site for students who need help succeeding in history courses; we are going to call it the Clio home page. My position as
an authority figure both in classroom work and within these various organizations has awakened a desire to embrace teaching,

for I enjoy sharing the excitement of education with my peers, as well as helping them achieve their own academic success.
I feel that my life experiences as well as my commitment to education would be an asset to Cornell's doctoral program in
History. Cornell has an exciting interdisciplinary program that is exceptionally impressive. In particular, Dr. Rayna Wilhelm's
specialty in Tudor-Stuart social and cultural history complements my own interest in studying the experiences of English preindustrial women. This combination will provide the strong background I desire in order to shape my future research interests. I
feel that Cornell is a premier institution for an aspiring Ph.D. candidate and as such, a very competitive program. But I know I
have the tools and the determination to excel in such a stimulating and challenging environment.

It happened two years ago as I lay sprawled out on the floor of the library lounge at the Universite de Grenoble in Grenoble,
France. I was working on an explication du texte of Guillaume Apollinaire' poem "La Loreley" for my Poemes et Proses du XXe
Siecle class when I suddenly put it together: this was my approach to literature. Close reading, formalism. Staying close, very
close, to the text. I was certain.
Certainty, however, proved rather unstable. I knew it was important not to close myself off from other approaches to literature,
so when I returned to Swarthmore from Grenoble, I took two courses which I knew would be highly theoretical-Women Writers
1790-1830 and Feminist Literary Criticism. These courses brought me around to a kind of hybrid approach to literature which I
find rich, effective, and enjoyable. In this approach I maintain a close connection to the text at the same time that I apply
theoretical work.
I am using this approach to literature in two major projects this year.
First, I received a $2,400 National Endowment for the Humanities Younger Scholars Summer Research Grant. I proposed to
expand on a prior research project, looking at the use of silence in the novels of Elie Wiesel, and at the ways Wiesel both
demonstrates and gets around the fact that conventional language simply breaks down when it is used to talk about the
Holocaust. I plan to expand on the same project for my senior English thesis. For this thesis I am studying the ways Wiesel uses
silence in the literal content of his novels and in his writing technique, and am working toward explanations as to how he gives
these silences meaning. My fluency in French from my semester of study in Grenoble has been invaluable since most of
Wiesel's works were written originally in French. My thesis involves close, formalist readings of Wiesel's novels, and is
enriched by theoretical work. (This thesis appears as "Senior Essay" on my transcript; that designation will change next
semester to "Thesis.")
My second major project this year is a self-designed research project which has just replaced comprehensive exams in the
Swarthmore English Department. I am working with British poetry just following World War I, looking at how these poets
write about a kind of war that truly had no precedent since it was the first war in which death could be so effectively and
impersonally mass-produced. I am focusing on my observation that a surprising number of these poems rely heavily on biblical
or mythical images, as though more contemporary images simply were not applicable any more.
I have known for several years that I want my graduate work to be in the field of English, but my approach to literature has been
enriched by my double major in English and sociology-anthropology. Twice my interest in anthropology has led me to study
literature of non-European cultures, both times with great personal satisfaction. My papers for The Black African Writer
combine theoretical research with a good deal of formalist textual analysis and close reading. I had several long conversations
about these papers with Prof. Wallace Mann, the R. Talbot Sondheim Professor of African Studies at Swarthmore. My second
excursion into less-traveled territory was a paper I wrote for Introduction to Hebrew Scriptures. I chose to do an exegesis of
Isaiah 65:17-25. I worked from the original Hebrew text since I had taken a course in biblical Hebrew (Religion 93) and have a
moderate level of reading comprehension of the language. I had a marvelous time digging so deeply into each word, and
sometimes even individual letters, as is required in an exegesis of a Hebrew passage.
My two major projects this year-my thesis and my senior project-are related by the theme of war literature, and my work on one
project gives me new ideas for the other. I feel fortunate that this has worked out, and at the University of Colorado-Boulder I
want to continue studying twentieth-century literature. However, I am also ready to start widening my base, casting out in some
new directions. I have found over and over that if I have a long-standing gut-level enjoyment of some kind of literature I almost
invariably have a wonderful time and do a particularly good job taking an academic approach to that literature. Old English
literature is in this category for me.
I have never done academic work in Old English literature, but for years I have treasured a cassette tape on which are recorded
in Old English the stories of Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, Caedmon, and The Wedding of Sir Gawain and Dame Ragnell.
And when I am feeling particularly harried, I often go to the Swarthmore library and treat myself to an old, scratchy recording
of a reading of Beowulf, following along in the Old English text and in a modern English translation. By imitating the voice I
hear and following in translation, I have taught myself a tiny amount of this language. I want to follow up on this interest.
My interest in studying at the University of Colorado-Boulder has grown out of conversations I have had with numerous people,
including Prof. Laurie Langbauer who had a lot of specific information since she taught there one summer. When I spoke about
my interests with Abbe Blum, another professor of English at Swarthmore, she recommended that I call Prof. Margaret
Ferguson. I did so, and had a wonderful conversation which helped me to confirm that I would feel very much at home in the
department. I am especially excited about the department's strength in twentieth-century, Renaissance, and Old English
literature.
I am also genuinely pleased about the distribution requirements, since they will help me to explore areas that I did not or could
not at Swarthmore. Only by doing that will I continue to learn new things about myself as a student of literature. I do not want
my experience in the Universite de Grenoble library to be a unique blip in my development. I want to continue changing,
refining, playing around with the ways in which I approach literature. This ever-changing, ever-learning approach will help me
to be a lifelong scholar and lover of literature.

I waited patiently by the bench in what all Harvey Mudd chemistry majors call the "Super Lab," staring for what seemed to be
hours at a small flask bubbling with something that looked like a cross between Pepto-Bismol and whipped cream. I was
waiting for the color to turn just the right shade of blue before I could go home for a late dinner, but it was obvious that this
solution was as far from blue as baseball is from rugby. I realized then that "Super Lab" was not so Super, and neither was a
career as a chemist.
Every summer since high school, I worked at Lawrence Livermore Laboratory as a research assistant. One of my major projects
involved working on a team to develop probes for the detection radioactive substances. When I turned in my final report, a
computer program that would give the same results in five minutes four people would in a week, my pride turned into
disappointment when my supervisor took credit for all of my hard work. Unbeknownst to me, somewhere in tiny print in the
contract signed as an employee; it said something to the effect that as an employee I would relinquish all rights to everything
that I developed at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. I felt that it was unfair for a company to claim such rights to its
employees' innovations and wished to learn more about the issues that surround intellectual property.
I was introduced to the field of intellectual property law in industrial chemistry, taught by Professor Gerald Van Hecke. For m
final report, I researched the development of the Gore-Tex fiber b procuring its patent from an online patent service. At that
time, was considering a career in the management sector of the chemical industry because I wanted to be able to use my
knowledge of applied chemistry while at the same time work with people. However, once I was introduced to industrial
chemistry law, I realized that a career in law would not only incorporate all of my skills but would give me more breadth than

management in a chemical company. Whereas management would limit me to a particular industry, IP law would expose me to
a number of industries. IP law would also not confine me to a particular strategy in dealing with problems but force me to
develop different strategies based on the industry and the problem that I am dealing with. Law school suddenly became a very
attractive career path to me, especially because it would allow me to use my education creatively to help protect the product of
peoples' ideas.
Although I am an applied chemistry major, what I have learned as an undergraduate can be applied in many ways to law.
Because I have a strong technical background, I have been trained extensively in solving problems both alone and in teams.
Although the problems themselves have been technical, the analytical skills that I have acquired in solving such problems can
be applied to the world of law. Harvey Mudd's unique engineering clinic program allowed me to work on a team of five
students to develop a project plan for General Electric Nuclear Energy to bring the concentration of toxic organic compounds in
their waste system down to environmentally safe levels. I have also worked on student teams to solve problems for Habitat for
Humanity, and during my summer internships to solve problems for the government. Because I am an applicant from a
nontraditional background, I can provide a different perspective to problems encountered in law, and can even introduce vastly
different but equally effective approaches to solving these problems.
My technical background is not the only factor that sets me apart from the traditional law school applicant. Because Harvey
Mudd balances its technical program with an equally strong emphasis in the humanities, I am not only leaving Mudd with a
great education in chemistry but I am leaving Mudd as a technically educated student who is skilled in writing and
communication. In addition to possessing a liberal arts background that is unequaled by most technical applicants to law school,
I also possess a back-ground that is unique even for a Harvey Mudder. The typical Harvey Mudd student studies at Mudd for
four years, then pursues graduate school in a science or engineering field, and then works in either industry or academia. Unlike
the typical Mudd student, I have managed not only to perform well academically, but to take advantage of nonacademic
opportunities in order to better balance my life. My experience as the resident assistant of my dorm has given me tools that are
necessary to a lawyer such as time management, interpersonal and conflict resolution skills, as well as the ability to effectively
deal with crisis situations. Having to juggle my responsibilities as a resident assistant, a student, and an athlete has increased my
organizational skills by orders of magnitude. As freshman and sophomore class president, and team leader of an engineering
project, I learned how to be more assertive and gained valuable leadership skills in the process. In addition, my membership the
National Forensics League and participation in Lincoln-Douglas debates have provided me with the skills of impromptu speech,
or communication, and the art of persuasion using sound facts as the basis for arguments.
I finally managed to completely break the mold of the typical Harvey Mudd student by attempting to study abroad for one
semester. This was the greatest challenge of my undergraduate career because not many science and engineering majors, let
alone Harvey Mudd students, leave to study at foreign institutions. Many attribute this to the specificity of the science
curriculum and the resulting difficulty in finding compatible curricula at foreign institutions. After making use of all the
resources possible, I realize that although it is indeed an arduous task to find a university abroad that matches our curriculum to
a tee, it is not impossible to do so. After one year of persuading some reluctant administrators to make it easier for a Harvey
Mudd student to leave for one semester, I found myself at the University of New South Wales in Australia where I had some of
the most valuable experiences in my life. I returned much more independent, and especially aware of the world around me.
Upon my return, and due in part to my own example, I discovered that the school had proposed many changes to allow more
flexibility in the students' education so that studying abroad would be possible for others who follow me.
I once had the misperception that those who are educated in disciplines such as political science, public policy, or pre-law are
more likely to be prepared for a graduate education in law than most other students. Now I believe that a student coming from a
more nontraditional background can contribute in many ways to society as a lawyer. In a world where technology is the
dominant means of progress and is advancing at such a breakneck pace, it can be a great advantage to society to have
knowledgeable people working with laws concerning technology. I not only believe that I am qualified to perform this service
to society as a lawyer, but I am convinced that [school withheld] possesses the quality of education and diversity in student
body that can best help me fulfill these goals.

The Question: "What are the reasons you wish to pursue the graduate program and how does it relate to your career goals?"
Roger Belton
Applicant--Master of Arts in Strategic Public Relations
University of Southern California
The Catalyst A burst blood vessel in the brain of my former university president provided the tragic high and low point in my
young public relations career.
It began with a jarring call at six A.M. on a Sunday morning. The president of George Fox University-where I serve as assistant
director of public information-had suffered a life-threatening stroke caused by a brain tumor. I was called in to deal with the
news media. I served as the university spokesperson, doing all media interviews, writing press releases, and recording a daily
voicemail line with health updates. The situation was made even more hectic by the fact that two of my university relations
colleagues were out of the office.
I found myself hurting for our president and his family but caught up in the action. Even when the director of public information
returned, I remained as the media spokesperson. A year later cancer claimed the life of our president, and I was asked to
summarize the personality of this remarkable man in our alumni newspaper. (See writing sample.)
That was one experience which has led me to apply to University of Southern California for further training in public relations.
Beyond Age 30 Although I am assistant director of public information, much of my time is consumed by my work as sports
information director for George Fox's athletic program.
Not long ago, a co-worker asked me, "Are you going to be a sports information director when you're 65?" My instinctive reply
surprised even myself: "I don't plan to be one when I'm 30." Since I'm 28 today, I've got two years to engineer a career change.
I feel I've gone about as far as I can in small-college sports information. Since 1992-when I moved from a 20-hour-a-week
student position to a full-time employee-I've elevated the coverage of non- revenue sports by improving their publications and
press releases.
When I began, media guides were produced only for men's basketball. Now all 13 varsity sports have a media guide. Many
guides have received national honors. My women's basketball guide is perhaps my favorite. Created from scratch, it has been
honored as the second best in the nation among colleges at our level of athletic competition. (I've enclosed the recent copy.)
With the assistance of student assistants, I produce weekly news releases for each sport. They often are used verbatim by local
newspapers. While speaking about athletic media relations at a recent conference, a sports reporter from a Portland radio station
declared George Fox the "King of News Releases."
At George Fox we strive to stand above the crowd. While most schools at our level photocopy their basketball programs, my
office puts together a 12-page program that generates about $7,000 in advertising revenue.
This year, I supervise a staff of up to seven students who assist me in stat keeping, ticket selling, ad selling, news release writing
and office work. I also recruit and manage about a dozen volunteers to staff games during basketball season.
I enjoy my job. I like working with my student assistants and seeing them mature as writers and as persons. It's fun to be part of
the "team" with coaches and student-athletes. I still find my palms sweaty in the ninth inning of a tight baseball game, but the
amount of coverage available to small colleges is frustratingly small. So much work for so little return.
Stepping Outside the Sports Arena Although I often find myself consumed with the promotion of my athletic department, I
don't want to be pigeon-holed as a sports fanatic.
After earning a number of state awards as a high school trumpet player, I received a music scholarship at George Fox. I

continue to play occasionally at weddings and church services and teach lessons.
The death of a college roommate from leukemia led me to volunteer at a camp for kids with cancer run by the American
Cancer Society. For the past six summers, I've been known as the bugle-blowing counselor "Mr. Toad."
My Destination I still tell people I don't know what I want to be when I grow up, but I'd like it to be in the public
relations field. I believe I have the talent for it.
I was recently honored with the "Rising Star" award in the field of communications by the Council for Advancement and
Support of Education (CASE) District VIII. It's an award given to professionals in their first five years in the field. The district
is made up of development, alumni and public relations professionals at educational institutions in five states and six Canadian
provinces. George Fox University-with 2,300 students-is one of the smallest colleges in CASE.
I take an active role in George Fox's weekly university relations meetings where we discuss potential news stories and a wide
variety of PR issues. Topics have ranged from: "How can we improve internal communication on our campus intra net system?"
to "What do we put in our alumni newspaper when one of our newly admitted freshmen has been arrested for a double
homicide?"
I get a thrill out of trying to capture the interest of the news media with a story tip and have achieved local and national success.
U.S. News & World Report magazine used one of my submissions about a unique George Fox campus tradition in its annual
college ranking guide.
Although I don't believe I want to be a full-time writer, I consider writing one of my strengths. My story about a record-setting
female pole vaulter this summer was used by the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAJA) in the inaugural
edition of its Internet magazine NAJA News. (See writing sample.) Another feature about a women's basketball senior citizen
fan club received a national award from the College Sports Information Directors Association.
An Itch to Explore: After 11 years as a student and administrator at George Fox, I feel very comfortable here, but I want to
broaden my horizons. It's an itch. Perhaps I picked it up from my father, who packed my family up when I was 12 and took us
to live in Brazil for a year. Twenty countries later, I'm still hungry to explore. In the last three summers, I've had coffee at the
home of a Bosnian war widow; seen Belfast, Northern Ireland, during Protestant marching season; and crossed from Hong
Kong to China with a relief worker to see her work on an island inhabited by lepers. Travel has opened my eyes to a world
larger than a basketball game.
I enjoy the academic environment. Going back to school excites me. Education always has been a part of my life. My parents
are both teachers. Since I have an interest in possibly following in their footsteps later in life, I would appreciate being
considered for a teaching assistantship. (See separate application packet.) I believe I would be an excellent candidate since I
have spent the last seven years editing sports and general news releases written by college students.
Why USC? I believe USC would provide me with excellent training in my profession. After finding its high ranking in the
Gourman Report, I visited the school's Web site for more information. The idea of receiving hands-on training from L.A.'s PR
professionals is extremely attractive. I contacted Alan MacDonald, who earned his master's degree in PR from USC, and current
journalism graduate student Jennifer Prosser, to ask about their experiences. Both gave the school and the professors high
marks.
Although I could see myself returning to a public relations position at George Fox, I'm intrigued by the variety of options that
would be available to me after graduation. Alan MacDonald told me that USC stood for University of Social Connections. In
addition to my current experience, a degree from USC would give me additional credibility. During my January visit to USC, I
met with Tim Burgess and was impressed that the Annenberg School of Communications had its own career advising office.
I have done quite a bit of research on master's degrees in communications, but USC's public relations program was the first and
only one to excite me. I am applying to no other program.
I do not go into this application process halfheartedly. This has been my passionate intention for over a year. In preparation for
the cost of full-time graduate school, I became frugal. I decided to continue driving my 12-year-old car, and I moved out of a
house where I rented alone to save costs in a shared duplex with four roommates.
I feel that I am ready to perform in your program-mentally, financially, academically-and that I have honed the skills necessary
to excel. I would like the opportunity to fulfill my capacity at USC
Thank you for considering my application.

My upbringing in Northern Ireland, a small corner of the world, has affected who I am in many
fundamental ways. For a start, I’ve learnt that it’s possible to catch pneumonia and get sunburnt
in the course of one afternoon; so I always over pack. So too have I discovered that “I’ll pop the
kettle on” is a sufficient emotional response when confronted with most situations. Northern
Ireland has had, as most know, a troubled history – so troubled, we simply call it ‘The Troubles’.
During this time, individually and collectively as a nation, we suffered. It was assumed that no
lasting solution would ever be found and most gave up trying, with stalled talks becoming a
perennial disappointment. Yet a renewed, focused and determined effort was made by the
British, Irish and American Governments to bring about peace, which was finally achieved
through the Good Friday Agreement. It was signed in 1997, a few months after my birth.
My generation is the first generation of peace – it’s all we’ve known, and thankfully ‘The
Troubles’ for us is merely a scarring reminder of what came before. We have so much to thank
the tireless efforts of diplomats for, for without their commitment the change witnessed in the
18 years subsequent would be unimaginable. Twenty years ago, who could have foreseen
Martin McGuinness paying tribute to the late Ian Paisley as “a friend?” While there are still
sizeable problems in our political system, the distance we’ve come shows the good that
diplomacy, politics, compromise and a will to succeed can do – and it is this, more than anything
else, which has shaped the path I want to follow at College and my career beyond. There are so
many places in the world in a similarly bad or worse condition that are consigned to the ‘Can’t
Help Box’ – a damning view of our pessimism about the capacity for change. I’ve grown up
seeing the work it takes to heal places scarred by division and violence, but can personally attest
that it’s worth it. With that in mind, as I came to realise what it took for where I live to achieve
peace it taught me always to persevere – that if people tell you something is “unachievable” it is
only so by the standards they set for themselves, so I always tried to work harder and aim higher
than everyone else. I don’t want to be bound by what others determine to be “too difficult.”
So I’ve thrown myself in. I’ve worked with MLAs and MPs on education reform, got involved
with organisations and campaigns like the UK Youth Parliament that encourage activism and
social progress, even founding my own to try and engage other young people in issues affecting
them. My determination to do all of this, and my optimism that change can be brought about, is
fuelled by my background in Northern Ireland. Life here has also taught me to value of
friendship and cooperation. For years, the metaphorical and physical walls placed between
Protestants and Catholics hindered understanding, friendship, and community. It is only when
we understand each other that we can begin to overcome our problems together. I was blessed
to grow up with the influence of my Granny, who always pushed me to meet people from “the
other side”, and I am proud to have been part of so many projects that promote the importance
of tolerance, understanding and friendship across historic divisions.
It may seem foolish to be proud of a background in a place infamous for bomb scares and
paramilitary violence, but I am. My experiences here have shown me what’s important in life:
determination, resilience, optimism, passion and having “a bit of ‘craic” (a uniquely Northern
Irish type of fun). I wouldn’t change my background for the world.

“Nigeria?” exclaimed the man sitting next to me, failing to mask his confusion. “Yes, Nigeria” I
said, confirming that I had enjoyed my years spent in Nigeria the most. My fellow traveller
remained stupefied, and to some degree, offended: how could I prefer the squalor of Lagos to
the elegance of Melbourne, Aberdeen, or Houston? Had I answered him, I might have explained
that there was a beauty that arose from the apparent chaos – an observation that taught me the
importance of learning through experience rather than relying on what others have said.
To my mind, this sentiment is best embodied in the Nigerian dish, Suya. In rickety stands
alongside polluted streets, thin slices of chicken, obtained from dubious sources, are marinated
in a myriad of seasonings before being grilled above a makeshift fire. Few would risk taking a
bite of this culinary adventure. Yet, to me, Suya is a delicacy, a prime example of exquisite
cuisine. A sprinkle of sweetness, followed by a tidal wave of spice, Suya is unlike anything I have
ever tried. If you are willing to put your fear aside and place your curiosity first, as I have learnt,
then Nigeria, like Suya, becomes a rich medley of flavour and colour.
Where better to find such an explosion of colour in Lagos than in Lekki Market? Ghanaian
textiles of orange, green, and red, mahogany-coloured handcrafted sets of ducks, and tall, slim
statues of African soldiers in green and blue colonial uniforms; Lekki had it all. With its dirt
floors, wooden shacks, and conspicuous absence of Apple logos, it was no Houston Galleria, but
for me it was human. Lekki was not selling comfort, but culture. It reminded me that there was
more to life than Gameboys, television, and pocket money. It was also a reminder that we are all
inter-connected. Behind the face of every merchant, I could see a family needing support,
children hoping for food. Two hundred Naira could feed a child for a day. It could also get me an
extra slice of pizza at lunch. I did not have to know these children personally to be conscious of
the fact that my choice to buy a slice of pizza over craftwork from their parents could be the
cause of a child going hungry. These faces taught me that the impacts of our choices, however
apparently personal, are never truly one’s own.
Above all though, what I most appreciated about Nigeria was its people. When my brother and I
were younger, Femi, our driver, would place us on his shoulders and run around as if we were
his own kids. We knew that he did not live an easy life, and yet he was not begrudging of us. We
went to private school whilst his children would be lucky if they went to school at all. Femi did
not resent us; rather he had nothing but love for us. Growing up all over the world, my brother
and I experienced how difficult it was to be welcomed into a new culture, and ironically, we
were best received in the country with which we had the least in common. It became clear that
the Nigerians that I met had a sense of community and mutual care that I have not often come
across in such abundance; there is much we could learn from them. Clearly, there is truth to be
learnt everywhere, so long as we can keep an open mind, a lesson I always try to bear in mind.
Prior to moving to Nigeria, I had shared the same sentiments as the man sitting next to me on
the plane. Fortunately, my time in Nigeria forced me to challenge these views, and in doing so,
opened my eyes to the importance of independent thought. As such, I will never cease to
challenge both my own views and those of others.

The most life-changing lessons waiting to be discovered lie beyond the snug bounds of
monotony and routine – beyond the classroom. This truth is something I recognized only
recently, after electing to immerse myself in the world of dairy farming. Initially I was anything
but content. I will confess, I was apprehensive. Encountering a strange new environment is
always unsettling to a certain degree. However, beyond my immediate tentativeness, this
experience challenged me to take a fresh, creative approach to learning, and develop a personal
resilience and drive which I would never have attained otherwise. For these reasons my time at
the dairy farm holds a distinct, fond place in my memory.
The first thing that struck me was the smell – an overwhelming stench of cow manure – earthy
tones of putrid grass which assaulted my nostrils. Then the symphony began – the rhythmic
hissing from overhead pipes marked the beat, with the staccato clipping of hooves, rain-song of
pellets hitting metal and incessant mooing of disgruntled cattle all merging in an intense
crescendo. White tiles stained with unidentified brown splashes surrounded the beasts, whose
bodies radiated wisps of steam with their every exhalation. Cold cups sucked at pink flesh, as
the small transparent spheres flooded with white fluid, emptied, and flooded once more with
the metrical throb of the dairy parlour.
Attached as I became to the familiar hum of the dairy, my most treasured time was,
undoubtedly, calving. I vividly remember my first one – the expectant cow stood panting in
agony as her every sinew struggled to contract and squeeze the calf from her body. ‘Grab the
legs and pull,’ the overall-clad farmer insisted. Locking my freezing hands around the slippery
hooves protruding from the cervix, I slowly coaxed the hefty calf free with a few tugs. The moist,
thick membrane-enclosed body finally slumped to the hay covered ground in a flurry of white.
Having been lured to maternal attentiveness by her calf’s distinctive scent, as well as the
oxytocin overflow of the birth, the dazed cow outstretched her tongue to clean her young. Little
pointy ears, dark eyes and a russet coat were all unveiled. A peculiar, blissful wave of
satisfaction overcame me. I had delivered new life into the world! Here, the blur of detached,
unanimated words, diagrams and numbers of the classroom suddenly became thrilling. The
stationary anatomical depictions were brought to life – networks of muscles, bones, arteries and
organs all delicately interacted to create the life before me. My mind traced the movement of
the scaffolding Hydrogen, Nitrogen and Oxygen atoms, which I had pencilled so many times,
from the hypothalamus, to the bloodstream, and to their final destination – the target cells.
This learning journey transformed the whine of the suction cups, the rattling of the pipes, and
chaotic clinking of hooves on the milking parlour floor into my idyllic soundtrack. Even the
pungent but somehow sweet smell of silage is nostalgic. Indeed, this time cemented my dream
of becoming a veterinarian – the intellectual tests, the physicality and the sheer variety of
outlandish situations which arise all endeared the profession to me.
There were many immediate physical reminders of my time at the dairy farm: the stench that
gripped onto my clothes, and offended the noses of my family members on the journey home,
as well as the yellow dribbles of iodine which stained my callused and burnt hands for days.
Nonetheless, after these fleeting souvenirs faded into obscurity, I was left with one prevailing
and utterly indelible lesson – to animate stationary words and diagrams memorised from pages,
and inspire an academic creativity, you have to learn from thought-provoking people, and,
above all, place yourself in situations which break free from the norm. The most unconventional
of environments can bring lessons far superior to those we learn in our classrooms.

Over 3,000 shows every year across 300 venues. Thousands of performers drawn from 47
countries around the globe. The largest international arts festival in the world. There is no place
I am more content than at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe every summer.
It seems an odd juxtaposition at first; Edinburgh is an old, medieval city. History oozes out of
every vein, from the cobbled streets to the magnificent stone castle that so dominates the
skyline. Yet, for three weeks every August it is engulfed by an electrifying torrent of cuttingedge, experimental music, theatre, dance and comedy. I have seen shows performed entirely in
darkness, entirely in silence, and even one where nothing happened at all! It is a heady mix of
the beautiful and the daring, and I leave Edinburgh each year with radically altered perceptions
of art, of culture, and indeed of life in general.
There’s a great deal of nostalgia tying me to the festival. I have visited every year for as long as I
can remember. The gradual transition from having to wait in a coffee shop with my mother
while my father and brother watch a risqué comedian I was too young to see, to actually
witnessing the powerful and taboo-breaking performances that populate the Fringe seems to
me inextricable from the process of growing up itself. This bohemian, spirited atmosphere has
helped define me, both as an aspiring playwright and as aspiring academic. There is a beauty in
encountering new ideas, new perspectives, and new analytical frameworks for looking at the
world. Fundamentally, a healthy mind is one that actively confronts itself with the unfamiliar.
It was only three years ago that I began performing at the Fringe Festival as well as attending.
Being part of a community of twenty actors just as invested in creativity and beauty as you are is
an incredible experience. Many have become some of my dearest friends and, this coming
summer, five of us intend to go a step further and write, organize and put on our own show
from scratch entirely independently. Here is a chance to not just absorb the eclectic discourse of
the Fringe, but to actively contribute our own creative voice to it. Economists frequently talk of
a ‘marketplace of ideas’, as if inspiration were a discrete product that can be traded and
bartered between socio-economic actors. There is no marketplace of ideas. It is a festival, a
celebration of innovation to which all can lend the weight of their own experience, and from
which all can learn equally.
Too often we associate contentment with tranquility. We think of the New England log cabin,
surrounded for miles and miles by sublime wildernesses. We think of isolation, of peace, as if we
alone are enough to make ourselves happy. Perhaps some people can do that, but I cannot. I
need bustle. I need energy. I need to be assaulted, barraged by a stream of exotic ideas that are
not my own. It is not peace, but a kind of intellectual chaos; daring; beauty. Then and only then
am I content.

Like it does on most nights, the smell of toxic fumes drifts through my room.

Occasionally washing my paintbrushes in turpentine oil thinner, I am uncomfortably aware that these vapors can cause brain damage, lung cancer, and chronic respiratory problems. My lifelong passion is killing me—literally. Yet, this smell is strangely comforting. It blankets me with a sense of security I find nowhere else.

An artist at the core, my paint-smeared heart pumps pigments of red through veins and arteries—the love for painting permeates every part of my body and has transformed me. By constantly observing subtle details of objects, breathtaking spectrums of color, and the interactions of lights and darks, my perception of the world has shifted.

I walk down the school hallway during passing period. Carried by a stream of teenage bodies, I notice ceiling lights scattering among clothes and locks of glossy hair. Looking down, shadows crisscross and overlap on the laminated floor to create a kaleidoscope of dancing silhouettes. Faces draw my attention—delicate hues of rosy pink on tips of ears and softly chiseled curves of bone. I observe my surroundings from an artist’s perspective, fully immersed in a state of perpetual learning.

Ultimately, my goal as an artist is to give my art personal, profound depth that transcends aesthetic purpose or technical skill. Paintings do not have to be of flowers or landscapes; they can portray story, emotion, and experience. Consequently, my art is inspired by personal experiences and observations. I hope to convey a fresh perspective of my life through strokes of color. The ambition of creating depth in my art forces me to reflect on myself as I continually ask why I am painting what I am painting. And because of the rigorous reflection of my values and experiences, I am given a greater sense of self-identity. This overwhelming position as an artist is humbling, teaching me an appreciation for self-worth often neglected or trivialized in a fast-paced American lifestyle. I want to show others this same value through my art so they can slow down to recognize and appreciate the value of their own lives.

Wonderland Unknown, a painting based on my favorite childhood story, Alice in Wonderland, depicts a rabbit in a forest of overgrown mushrooms and twisted trees. The piece builds on the idea that children’s innate creativity and capacity for imagination are stifled as they mature. Growing up, I began to feel estranged from the tale because it turned unrealistically ridiculous, a personal testimony to the slow deterioration of childhood wonder. Painting Wonderland Unknown was an epiphany—I realized that creativity is inherent: a universal thread within all of us that stitches humanity together. Most importantly, it is a trait that should be nurtured and valued instead of taken for granted.

Truly, art is a world of possibility and a world I would like to share.

It is a place where one is encouraged to break rules, be unapologetically audacious, and take pride in unorthodoxy. Ready to play creator of my universe, I rule with brush in one hand and palette in the other, painting because of a chance to explore this liberating world and discover myself through it. And in the end, art will always stay a constant in my life, forever my private sanctuary of creativity and personal expression. A place where I am infinite.

I feel relieved knowing that the smell of turpentine will always comfort me. It is a thin, oily smell of ironic undertones, vaguely nauseating and coffee-ground bitter. It is a smell that has given me life.

“What are you ‘dying’ of this time, Lauren?” This is the greeting I am met with every time I step foot into my pediatrician’s office, which is much too often. If there were a rewards card for office visits, I would be a gold member. With every strange bump, slight cough, or nagging headache I get, I can only put my mind to rest by dragging my mother across town to get whatever is bothering me checked out. I am a hypochondriac by its very definition.

I have been afraid of everything pertaining to the medical field ever since the sight of a bloody scraped knee acquired on the third grade playground sent me into a collapse and convulsions. After an emergency room visit and what felt like hundreds of tests later, the doctors concluded that I was fine and that I had fainted simply out of fear. However, my 8-year-old self knew without any years of medical school education that there was actually something terribly wrong with me, and I would be on my deathbed before elementary graduation.

Throughout my childhood, the thought of everything from catching a disease to surgery made me feel nauseous. While most kids feared not finding a date to the middle school dance, I feared that a mosquito bite on my leg would lead me to be at death’s door due to West Nile Virus within a week. I feared my life being cut short before I could even live it due to some freak disorder or disease, and I feared the state of eternal oblivion I would one day enter. A simple scraped knee led me to become incapacitated by the concept of sickness and essentially death. Despite all this, I still signed up for the medical career pathway all students at my high school typically take.

I managed to stomach my way through the first two years of text- book work and medical terminology memorization. However, I dreaded every second leading up to my junior year when I would have to perform clinical rotations around my local hospital. I viewed the hospital as the absolute embodiment of my hypochondriac-driven fears. I could not imagine myself thrust into the hospital environment once a week when I could not watch hospital shows on television without becoming anxious.

However, within the fluorescent halls of Valley Baptist Medical Center during my junior year, I learned the very definition of overcoming fear. Even though I was shaking in my scrubs, I was a spectator to everything from feeding tube installation to gastric surgery. I pushed thoughts of demise to the back of mind and pushed what little bravery I had to the front. My ears heard screams due to death and grief among the beeps of ICU machines but also heard the cries of joy and new beginnings in the women’s pavilion. I saw death in the eyes of several patients, but I was also witness to recovery and new life. By the end of the year, I no longer dreaded my visits to the hospital but looked forward to what I would be exposed to.

I still become nervous every time I begin to feel the familiar tickle of a sore throat form behind my tongue, but I do not live a life paralyzed by the fear of something unavoidable. I will not spend my life being afraid of when the end of it will come and I like to consider myself oblivious to the oblivion which will one day overcome me. I no longer view death and disease with the same fear I acquired from my “life-threatening” third-grade incident. I view death and disease as old friends who will inevitably come knocking at my body’s door someday, met with a warm embrace. Until then, I will keep bothering my doctor to make sure my friends stay away as long as they possibly can.

Language is not the sole domain of humans. Animals also talk, and over the last few years I have been fascinated by learning two new languages that even foreign language school students have never heard of. Studying animal languages is very different from learning Korean, Chinese, or Spanish. There are always dictionaries to refer to when I learn human languages, but when learning animal languages I don’t have a google translator to spit out satisfactory answers. In fact, I have to use my own judgment, which combines my mind, heart, and instinct, to interpret what I hear.

Tree frogs, specifically Japanese tree frogs and Suweon tree frogs, use songs not just to express their amorous intentions but to survive. While these two species may look physically identical, they are sexually incompatible. So in order to lure the right female, male frogs sing serenades that are distinguishable from other species. Analyzing these serenades at an ecology lab with spectrograms and waveforms, I decoded every pulse of sound emitted by these ravenous tree frogs into patterns of numbers to let humans understand their lyrics.

Unlike frogs’ mating songs, bats use language not only to communicate but also to navigate and locate insects at night. While flying, bats shoot out biosonar sounds and listen to the echoes that bounce off obstacles to grasp the world around them. Visualizing a world just with sound, I was enchanted by their invisible language when I studied the Greater Horseshoe bat’s supersonic echolocation at a wildlife conservation lab. When bats cast nets of invisible words every millisecond during free flight and ziplining experiments, we captured and revealed their dialogue that had neither conjugations nor grammar.

After eavesdropping on treefrogs’ and bats’ conversations, I discovered that they use languages for survival. The language of the frogs exemplifies power—the stronger and bigger a frog is, the louder it can sing, scaring off all its prey and bravely exposing itself to predators. And for bats, their invisible language is their vision. They silently scream out for help and listen carefully as nature’s echoes guide their path. In a sense, animals communicate with other species and with nature.

On the other hand, humans have developed esoteric words, convoluted sentences, and dialects to express their sophisticated ideas and feelings. This amazing evolution has, I believe, isolated us from nature. Now we prefer to live away from wildlife, tending to communicate only among other Homo sapiens sapiens through texts, tweets, and e-mails. Taking a page from Dr. DoLittle’s pocket diction, I hope that my work helps us broaden our anthropocentric minds and understand animals who also share our biosphere. If our souls are reconnected with nature, maybe we could hear Mother Nature whisper some secrets about her mysteries that we are too wired or unaware to heed.

Early explorers boldly left the comforts of their homeland to learn the languages and traditions of other cultures. Due to their dedication, these self-taught bilinguals were able to bridge cultures and share values between different communities. In the same way, I want to take risks in learning to communicate with other species beyond human beings and become a multilingual biologist who connects human and animal realms. I wish to venture into the animal kingdom and become a pioneer in mastering and sharing nature’s occult dialects with our species. When we finally learn to comprehend and harmonize with nature, we humans might become more humane.

“Paint this vase before you leave today,” my teacher directed as she placed foreign brushes and paints in my hands. I looked at her blankly. Where were the charts of colors and books of techniques? Why was her smile so decidedly encouraging? The sudden expectations made no sense.

She smiled. “Don’t worry, just paint.”

In a daze, I assembled my supplies the way the older students did. I was scared. I knew everything but nothing. And even in those first blissful moments of experimentation, it hurt to realize that my painting was all wrong. The gleam of light. The distorted reflection. A thousand details taunted me with their refusal to melt into the glass. The vase was lifeless at best.

As the draining hours of work wore on, I began wearing reckless holes in my mixing plate. It was my fourth hour here. Why had I not received even a single piece of guidance?

At the peak of my frustration, she finally reentered the studio, yawning with excruciating casualness. I felt myself snap.

“I barely know how to hold a brush,” I muttered almost aggressively, “how could I possibly have the technique to paint this?”

She looked at me with a shocked innocence that only heightened the feeling of abandonment. “What do you mean you don’t have the technique?”

It was as though she failed to realize I was a complete beginner.

And then suddenly she broke into a pitch of urgent obviousness: “What are you doing! Don’t you see those details?? There’s orange from the wall and light brown from the floor. There’s even dark green from that paint box over there. You have to look at the whole picture,” she stole a glance at my face of bewilderment, and, sighing, grabbed my paint-stained hand. “Listen, it’s not in here,” she implored, shaking my captive limb. “It’s here.” The intensity with which she looked into my eyes was overwhelming.

I returned the gaze emptily. Never had I been so confused . . .

But over the years I did begin to see. The shades of red and blue in gray concrete, the tints of Phthalo in summer skies, and winter’s Currelean. It was beautiful and illogical. Black was darker with green and red, and white was never white.

I began to study animals. The proportions and fan brush techniques were certainly difficult, but they were the simple part. It was the strategic tints of light and bold color that created life. I would spend hours discovering the exact blue that would make a fish seem on the verge of tears and hours more shaping a deer’s ears to speak of serenity instead of danger.

In return for probing into previously ignored details, my canvas and paints opened the world. I began to appreciate the pink kiss of ever-evolving sunsets and the even suppression of melancholy. When my father came home from a business trip, it was no longer a matter of simple happiness, but of fatigue and gladness’ underlying shades. The personalities who had once seemed so annoyingly arrogant now turned soft with their complexities of doubt and inspiration. Each mundane scene is as deep and varied as the paint needed to capture it.

One day, I will learn to paint people. As I run faster into the heart of art and my love for politics and law, I will learn to see the faces behind each page of cold policy text, the amazing innovation sketched in the tattered Constitution, and the progressiveness living in oak- paneled courts.

It won’t be too far. I know that in a few years I will see a thousand more colors than I do today. Yet the most beautiful part about art is that there is no end. No matter how deep I penetrate its shimmering realms, the enigmatic caverns of wonder will stay.

I shouldn’t be here right now. My life could have never been. There are 70 trillion genetic combinations to make human beings. Our chromosomes could have aligned to make the best human being: a person who has the strength of Lance Armstrong, the cunning of Albert Einstein, and the kindness of Mother Teresa all in one. But that didn’t happen. Billions of chromosome combinations for a human being were possible, and I was born. I am not a superhuman being, but I do intend on making my life extraordinary.

I have every resource to make my life extraordinary. I know this because I am growing up in America, the land of opportunity. The land where anything is possible, as long as you work for it. My father came to America from Ghana with only a pair of pants, two shirts, and $100 in his pocket. Today, he is an engineer. He always expressed to me the value of education, and I remember the long car rides home from school when he would stress to me: “Brianna, hard work, hard work always pays off.”

In my school, I am often the only black face in a classroom; but I do not let this bother me. In the classroom, regardless of race, gender, or interests, knowledge is the great equalizer. I know that the knowledge I gain is not only for myself, but for every child in Ghana. Some nights I stay up and think how my life would be the same as theirs if I hadn’t been lucky enough to have parents that came to America. Since I am here, in America, I will make the most out of every opportunity. I will learn so that I can pass on the gift of learning. Every extra hour I study, every time I sacrifice going out with friends, every night I stay up late, I tell myself that it will all pay off for a greater cause.

Last summer I was given an extraordinary educational opportunity when I participated in the Minority Introduction to Engineering and Sciences (MITES). MITES is a six-week summer program at MIT that immersed me in an academic world I had never known. I was surrounded by some of the top students in the nation in an environment that pushed me to learn and see the world in ways I had never envisioned. That level of academia is something I love.

During MITES I had the opportunity to take a genomic elective at the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard. On one of my last days there, I was standing in front of the Broad, and I looked up and realized it was here that I felt most alive. To know that I was about to enter a building that had so much potential to discover anything gave me a feeling of excitement and happiness I have never felt about anything else. It made me certain that I want to be a medical researcher.

In the lab, I was able to see for myself the capabilities of genomic research. The most fascinating and exciting part of all this was that it may soon be possible to tell exactly why someone is sick just by looking at their microbiome. This breakthrough would have enormously positive ramifications in Ghana and other parts of Africa.

My dream is to continue this research. The Broad is currently working on research in conjunction with Harvard that delves into areas that I envision great strides being made in. I want to contribute my knowledge and passion into these extraordinary strides.

Human genetics could have aligned to make a perfect human being, but they did not. They made me as I am now. I am aware that even though I may be flawed, I have been given this one precious life. At the end of my life I want to be able to honestly say that I used all the potential I was given; there is nothing left. Never before has there been so much technology, opportunity, and ability to make the absolute most out of a human life. And not only to improve one’s own situation, but also the lives of others. I know that I would not have the opportunities granted to me if other people before me had not worked and innovated. I feel that it is my turn to innovate, to improve the lives of mankind for generations long after I am gone. To follow my passion and make my life absolutely extraordinary.

Nothing could have prepared me for the first time I heard the jangle of John Lennon’s Rickenbacker guitar that opens the theme song of the Beatles’s film A Hard Day’s Night. Thinking I might enjoy a movie that had played a part in her childhood, my mother exposed me to the film, inadvertently sparking an obsession that may never fully subside.

I watched the film constantly until I had every tune and lyric of the soundtrack down. I could recite each line and mimic every one of the characters’ gestures. A visitor entering my bedroom at this point would have been bombarded with Beatlemania, encountering posters, pins, T-shirts, and my personal favorite: a Beatles-themed lamp.

When my uncle learned of my fixation, he took me to buy my first guitar. As I began to explore other artists of the British invasion, I begged my parents to let me take lessons in order to emulate the sounds of my favorite artists. I took advantage of any free moment to sneak up to my bedroom and work my fingers into ready position to play the Who’s “Pinball Wizard.” I often stayed up until the early hours of the morning plucking the “My Generation” riff, crouched behind a wall of pillows I had constructed to prevent the twang of my guitar from traveling down the hallway and into my parents’ bedroom.

Although the opening sound of A Hard Day’s Night and the image of the Beatles fleeing a throng of bawling girls triggered many different thoughts, my immediate reaction was to know I needed to play in a band. I joined my school’s pit band and began attending grueling two-hour practices in preparation for performances of musicals like Anything Goes and Guys and Dolls. Through the New England Conservatory, I attended classes and participated in small jazz combos. Though I collaborated on recordings of covers and original pieces with classmates as well as teachers, my most rewarding recording projects were the tracks I created with my brother. In these songs, we blended hip-hop style beats, rock instrumentation, and samples from vintage vinyl to create an aesthetic that we’d never heard before. Few feelings can compare to the fulfillment of playing back a piece of music I’ve created with a sound I believe to be completely my own.

Playing with others provides an escape from the obstacles that bog me down in other areas of my life, and when I lose myself in music, I am unfettered and uninhibited by my weaknesses.

Since I discovered my passion, I have accumulated a myriad of experiences that the pre-Beatles Joe could have never imagined. I am most proud of a service project I initiated that entailed weekly drives into Dorchester to share my passion with young students through guitar lessons. Many of my other musical adventures have transpired at events I attended. I spent hours in the pouring rain waiting for Wilco to perform at their eclectic indie festival in western Massachusetts. At one o’clock in the morning, I participated in a tribute to Don Cornelius featuring a “Soul Train line” at a poetry slam in the basement of the Lizard Lounge. In a welding shop tucked amid several warehouses, I attended a DIY punk show in Worcester and braved my first mosh pit.

This year marked the 50th anniversary of the release of A Hard Day’s Night, and to honor the occasion, the film was reintroduced into theaters. Although much of the movie had faded from my memory, I made the trip north to Portland, Maine to see the film. As the lights in the State Theatre dimmed, I shivered in anticipation. This time, when I heard the familiar chord from that tinny twelve-string echo through the building, I knew I was in for something special.

Surrounded by thousands of stars, complete silence, and spectacular mountains, I stood atop New Hampshire’s Presidential Range awestruck by nature’s beauty. I realized that I must dedicate my life to understanding the causes of the universe’s beauty. In addition, the hike taught me several valuable lessons that will allow me to increase my understanding through scientific research. Although the first few miles of the hike up Mt. Madison did not offer fantastic views, the vistas became spectacular once I climbed above tree line.

I sensed that understanding the natural world parallels climbing a mountain. To reach my goal of total comprehension of natural phenomena, I realized that I must begin with knowledge that may be uninteresting by itself. However, this knowledge will form the foundation of an accurate view of the universe. Much like every step while hiking leads the hiker nearer the mountain peak, all knowledge leads the scientist nearer total understanding. Above tree line, the barrenness and silence of the hike taught me that individuals must have their own direction.

All hikers know that they must carry complete maps to reach their destinations; they do not allow others to hold their maps for them. Similarly, surrounded only by mountaintops, sky, and silence, I recognized the need to remain individually focused on my life’s goal of understanding the physical universe. At the summit, the view of the surrounding mountain range is spectacular. The panorama offers a view of hills and smaller mountains. Some people during their lives climb many small hills. However, to have the most accurate view of the world, I must be dedicated to climbing the biggest mountains I can find.

Too often people simply hike across a flat valley without ascending because they content themselves with the scenery. The mountain showed me that I cannot content myself with the scenery. When night fell upon the summit, I stared at the slowly appearing stars until they completely filled the night sky. Despite the windy conditions and below freezing temperatures, I could not tear myself away from the awe-inspiring beauty of the cosmos. Similarly, despite the frustration and difficulties inherent in scientific study, I cannot retreat from my goal of universal understanding.

When observing Saturn’s rising, the Milky Way Cloud, and the Perseid meteor shower, I simultaneously felt a great sense of insignificance and purpose. Obviously, earthly concerns are insignificant to the rest of the universe. However, I experienced the overriding need to understand the origins and causes of these phenomena. The hike also strengthened my resolve to climb the mountain of knowledge while still taking time to gaze at the wondrous scenery. Only then can the beauty of the universe and the study of science be purposefully united. Attaining this union is my lifelong goal.

In her cramped kitchen, Titi Nana cracked the egg in the center of the pan, the
cheeriness of the bright yellow yolk contrasting the harshness of the caldero. In a
flourish, she jerked the bottle of alcohol in her hand, flames erupting from the
griddle. She instructed me: "Wipe it all off," gesturing to dust off my shoulders and
arms into the inferno. I laughed nervously as I removed the maldad [evil] from my
body, one brush at a time.
I left Titi's apartment that day confused about how our family's practice of Santería
[witchcraft] fit in with my outward embrace of my heritage. I felt as if the parts of my
Latina identity I claimed openly -- dancing salsa to Celia Cruz or enjoying lechón y
arroz con habichuelas en Navidad -- were contradicted by my skepticism towards
Titi's rituals. My experience with Santería wasn't new, as proven by my mother's
kitchen altar lit dimly by prayer candles and adorned with evil eyes, statues of San
Miguel, and offerings to Elegua; however, I'd never before witnessed such a tangible
demonstration of my family's ritualistic beliefs. Although it surrounded me, I refused
to believe in the effects of Santería... so I shunned it entirely.
Moving to a predominantly white boarding school and away from the rituals my
family had passed down, I avoided addressing the distance I had wedged between
myself and my background. I pushed away all things Latina as my fear of failing to
honor my Puerto Rican heritage intensified. This distance only grew as my
classmates jokingly commented on my inability to speak Spanish and my whitepassing complexion, further tearing away bits of my Latinidad with each snide
remark.
In an effort to build myself back up, I began to practice the small bits of Santería that
I comprehended: lighting candles for good luck, placing a chalice of water by my
bedside to absorb all maldad, and saying my prayers to San Miguel and my guardian
angels each day. To my disbelief, the comments that attacked my Latinidad, or lack
thereof, faded along with the aching feeling that I had failed to represent my
heritage. As I embraced the rituals that I initially renounced, I finally realized the
power in Titi's practices. In all of her cleansing and prayer rituals, she was protecting
me and our family, opening the doors for us to achieve our goals and overcome the
negativity that once held us back. In realizing the potential of Santería, I shifted my
practices to actively protecting myself and others against adversity and employed
Santería as a solution for the injustice I witnessed in my community.
Santería once served as my scapegoat; I blamed the discomfort I felt towards black
magic for the imposter syndrome festering inside me. Until I embraced Santería, it
only served as a reminder that I wasn't Latina enough in the eyes of my peers. Now, I
understand that while intangible, ethereal, even, the magic of Santería is real; it's the
strength of my belief in myself, in my culture, and in my commitment to protect
others

They talked about the past, but never the present. In my suburban schools, they
talked about Martin Luther King Jr., and Harriet Tubman, and Rosa Parks, but for
some reason, not Malik el-Shabazz. I use his chosen name because that's probably
what he would've wanted and because Malcolm X was mentioned in passing. My
ancestors had their own struggles with white people, but no generational impact
that holds a light to American slavery. My parents come from a land I only know by
name and the stories they tell, and whatever I can gather from Google Maps. While I
am African, I mentally distanced myself from true African-Americans; I did not
deserve pity for the unspeakable horrors, nor praise for their strength and hope in
face of them. In my school, there were barely ever any black kids in my class, and no
true African-Americans, so I was the sole focus during lessons on Blackness, where
they'd look at me, or avoid eye contact. It wasn't until I transferred to an inner-city
high school that I saw the truth. It wasn't until I went from the blue and glass
monsters that rose out of the ground like mountains in my suburban high school, to
the small brick building with gated windows in Boston, that I realized there were
schools 20 miles away with mostly kids of color. They were not that different from
kids in the suburbs, except for their choices.
I moved in with my dad in Boston, transferring to a small school in the city. In three
months at my suburban high school, through a rotating schedule in a labyrinth of
opportunities, I needed my schedule every day. On my 3rd day at my Boston school, I
knew exactly where to go. For the first time, my schedule was given, not created. The
gated windows intimidated me on my first day, and I thought the kids would be
crazy or "hood". What I really discovered was a lot more of them looked like me.
There were over 200 students at this school, almost entirely students of color, and a
majority white staff. There were no real electives and only one language available at
the school. I had to go back a year in math because the system wasn't designed for
students ahead in other districts. We didn't even have a full-time nurse. Students
take public transportation, and kids from three different schools had to fit on buses
that fit 38 people. Some bus drivers did not care enough to get every student on
board. The ones that did broke federal guidelines. For lunch, every student in Boston
is qualified for free meals, a fact frequently thrown around like an accomplishment,
but in truth, the lunch is worse than prison food. I've seen kids search for seconds of
this stuff, while students in the suburbs complain about "limited" choices.
So, what's the difference between inner-city schools and suburban ones? Well, it's a
series of simple decisions, compounded into disastrous circumstances. I'm afraid the
real question is, what's the difference between inner-city kids and suburban ones?
The only difference I've seen is that most suburban kids look like the founding
fathers we learn about in class, and most of the inner-city kids look like the slaves
they bought and bruised. My experience at three vastly different high schools has
shown me these problems in educational disparity are closer to home than we think,
a crucial misstep in correcting the wrongs of this country. These experiences have
given me a unique perspective, and a responsibility to act. I'm planning a protest
when schools open back up, which is undefined. There are solutions to these
problems, but inaction perpetuates. As King once said, "the arc of the moral universe
is long, but it bends towards justice." Almost 70 years after Brown v. Board of
Education, equality hasn't been achieved, so we'll fight to achieve it.

During my sophomore year, my dad and I established a Friday after-school ritual. My
90-minute commutes home from school are normally devoted to studying, but
Fridays are reserved for listening to music with him. We alternate picking songs: a
shared favorite or something new. These long car rides sparked my curiosity in
music.
I began reading books about our favorite artists and roaming Spotify for hours,
listening to a variety of new songs. My playlist ranged from The Beatles and Queen
to Ella Fitzgerald, Debussy, and even Montserrat Caball. Most nights I lie in bed with
headphones. Music is not background noise, but an immersive experience. I love to
let the melody overtake me, to have the volume so high that I can hear every lyric,
every crack and nuance in the singer's voice.
One night I was listening to Bohemian Rhapsody, completely captivated. I loved how
the melody made me feel--thrilled yet distressed. I craved more. I wanted to
participate, to obtain what felt like magic. So I hurried downstairs to our home piano
-- an ancient Costco keyboard missing half the keys. I'd never played before, but was
determined to learn the song. I first relied on Youtube videos, and soon progressed
to other songs using just my ear. My parents, with enough convincing, agreed to buy
me a used piano.
So my dad and I were back in the car. One bleak winter night, we pulled into a gravel
driveway, the parking lot of an aging, shack-like store. My dad glanced over at me,
raising his eyebrows. "I'll go in first."
The door creaked open, revealing a glossy black piano. It stood directly in the center
of the room, twinkling,bathing in the blinding ceiling lights. I rushed to the piano,
running my hands along the ivories, feeling their weight push against mine--oh the
magic of a full set of keys!
It wasn't long before I released the full potential of my weight, striking the first chord
to Bohemian Rhapsody. Rich, smooth notes poured out from the piano, swirling
through the air in bursts of color. They rushed through me, lit up my eyes, tugged at
my heart, until I was completely consumed in their bright, pulsing waves.
I used to think grades were an estimation of my self-worth; I thought fixating on
them would fulfill me, when, really, I was unhappy. Music brings me balance and joy.
I love escaping through songs and fully absorbing theartists' pain or excitement.
Playing the piano makes these emotions tangible, and it's empowering and
liberating. It gives me something else to challenge and identify myself with. It gives
me another source of fulfillment, one that's even more rewarding, because I pursue
it independently.
I practice for hours every day, perhaps to the annoyance of my family. But I know
they're proud, especially my dad. He's never one to shower me with compliments,
nor belt along behind me at the piano. But I feel his pride when he blurts, "You
should learn this song" in the car, or when he prompts me to play at holiday parties,
his beaming reflection in the piano's lacquer.
I'm proud of myself, too. I don't know exactly what I want to do with my love for
music or piano. I don't fancy myself as a concert pianist, nor do I strive to become
one. I play for the feeling. I'll never tire of completing a song,when my heart sings
and my eyes start to swim, because every note, every beautiful wash of color, I
earned myself

I was sitting at my desk in freshman ELA class, as confident as America's Top Model
walking down the runway. It was the end of class and I was excited to see how well I
did on the first quiz of the year. My eyes were stalking my teacher as he walked
through the aisles, passing back the quizzes. As was the case growing up, I couldn't
wait for my teacher to put my quiz on my desk so I could flip it over for the world to
see my A. Finally, the moment arrived. I flipped over the paper, expecting fireworks
and confetti to come down when I locked my eyes on my grade. The only problem
was that there was no A in sight.
All my life, I've felt pressure to achieve the highest grades to honor my mom's
sacrifice. She walked away from everything she knew in the Dominican Republic so
that we could immigrate to the United States when I was nine. Her goal was for me
to receive a better education and have more opportunities. Getting below an A
meant that I wasn't trying hard enough and that my mom sacrificed in vain. The
pressure from my mom was so consuming that my perception of a successful
education was entirely defined by grades. My most efficient strategy for earning A's
was memorizing what my teachers taught me and spitting it back out on tests.
Since this strategy was so effective, there was no need worrying whether I learned
the material or not. I was getting great grades and my mom was pleased, so I was
content.
I stared at the C at the top of the quiz like a three-headed monster. My world was
crashing down. My first thought, which I quickly dismissed, was that I needed to
transfer. However, I'm not the type of person to run from a challenge. I started to
rethink how I could engage the course material, rather than simply memorize it. It
was clear that my old ways had gone extinct. Instead of cramming, I began studying
a week before an exam. Instead of expecting to master a skill when the assessment
came, I sought feedback on my progress weeks before the assessment in order to
improve. After implementing these new strategies, I not only earned A's again, but I
was able to gain life-long learning skills.
I now have the knowledge and mastery of skills to succeed in college. Now that I
recognize the true learning process, I have the power to continue to strive for
success. When I took Biology in high school, I was fascinated by being able to
develop an in-depth understanding of our bodies and the world around us. Biology
allowed me to think critically and to see beyond the surface. Specifically, I enjoyed
having the opportunity to apply my knowledge in labs by generating hypotheses
and testing them. I'm looking forward to taking advantage of your resources to
participate in research and prepare for a career as an anesthesiologist.
I aspire to be an anesthesiologist because I hope to help people ease their fears and
pain when going into surgery. I recognize that becoming an anesthesiologist is a
difficult task, but thanks to lessons I've learned, I'm excited to overcome challenges
thrown my way the same way I overcame my struggles in ELA class. Facing that
challenge, and discovering the power of learning, helped me grow immensely.
Truthfully, there will always be fireworks and confetti in my head at the sight of an A,
but I now recognize that the learning is far more lasting than an A.

When I came into the University of Massachusetts - Amherst as a theatre major, I wasn’t exactly sure what I wanted. I’d had a passion for performance all throughout middle school and high school, but I wasn’t sure how I felt about the industry itself – not to mention the strictly enforced gender roles. No matter what, I knew I wanted to spend the majority of my time in the Fine Arts Center, but as a first year with general education requirements and less-than-no chance of being cast in mainstage productions, it wasn’t exactly easy. But at UMass, all theatre majors are required to have three “110” credits, a practical technical course that makes up the crew for the mainstage shows. A student can be on set build crew, costume construction, sound crew, or a number of run crews. I really couldn’t be more grateful for this requirement.

For my first 110 credit I was lucky enough to bypass the prerequisite requirement and be placed on costume construction crew. The show I worked on primarily was David Ives’ The Liar. I worked with the school’s costume department to create 16th century French clothing for the actors and in the process learned not only about construction technique, but about myself. I learned what I wanted. I fell in love in that cramped workroom hunched over a Bernina sewing machine. I love sewing, I love making garments, I love the satisfaction of seeing my work on-stage. It reminds me of how wonderful I felt under the lights in high school, but makes me realize just how much work went into making that elation possible.

After The Liar, I started doing costume work of my own. I started with Halloween when I made a replica of one of Daenerys Targaryen’s gowns on Game of Thrones and just kept going from there. This didn’t exactly make me friends – at least at school. The other people I lived with in my residence hall just didn’t share the same passion and I had to find a balance between getting my sewing done and not annoying my roommate with the sound of the machine running. However, in late January, I was proud enough of my Daenerys costume to take it to a convention in Boston. At the convention I made friends immediately with people who shared my interest in cosplay and costume work who turned out to be Emerson students. They told me about how they’d get together and have ‘sewing parties’, how they’d compare technique and give each other advice. And they’d all met at school.

I realized at a college focused so closely on the arts, my interest in costuming wouldn’t make me a hermit. It would give me a social life of my own, and might even have the potential to become my homework. I’d be with people who would understand my love of the stage because they shared it. I’d be with my people. I immediately decided I wouldn’t let go of the school that topped my list senior year – now that I know what I want, I’ll do whatever I can to get the best education in the theatre arts available to me.

It felt like an eternity. After three hours of waiting, the fire department's crowbars slowly pried through the doors of the halted elevator, which was filled well over capacity with myself and ten other students from around the country. We were all there for the same reason: the Gay, Lesbian, and Straight Education Network flew us to Washington, D.C. to speak to legislators about the need for school climate change. More specifically, we were lobbying for two bills that would protect LGBT students from discrimination in schools as well as establish a federal anti-bullying policy.

Less than six hours prior to the elevator incident, I was waiting in a long line of Michiganders to meet with Senator Debbie Stabenow. As a student who lives in a district with an inclusive anti-bullying policy, I know what a massive difference it makes to be in a school that protects your safety. I folder her stories of friends who had been targets of assault, harassment, or worse because of their identities. When she told me that my story made a difference and that she would consider co-sponsoring both bills, I felt an overwhelming sense of confidence that carried over into my two meetings with the respective staff of Representative Gary Peters and Senator Carl Levin later that day.

Since this lobbying experience in early 2012, all of the legislators I spoke with co-sponsored one or both bills. This means that not only Michigan students but students all around the country are one step closer to equality and safety. This lobbying summit (as well as other summits I attended in New York City, NY; Briarcliff Manor, NY and Los Angeles, CA hosted by the same organization) empowered me with the ability to speak out for change. I have been not only able to share my story with huge media outlets such as The Huffington Post, but I have also had the wonderful opportunity to talk about creating change with location publications like my city newspaper and my school magazine.

Knowing that the power of my voice might chance some minds, but strong words and actions combined is enough to shake the world, I founded a non-profit organization called The Breaking the Silence Initiative. I direct a youth leadership team composed of around fifteen students that makes anti-bullying presentations in middle schools. Additionally, we plan student advocacy events across the state in the name of proactively targeting bullying and encouraging students to be accepting of all their peers regardless of differences. I even received a $28,000 grant from the State Farm Youth Advisory Board to fund the initiative, which has allowed me to facilitate tangible change in Southeast Michigan.

That elevator may have been cramped, but I couldn't imagine a better way to spend three hours than surrounded by leaders whose ripples of change would be felt all across the nation. Because I have had the opportunity to see that one voice truly can make a difference, I will never stop fighting for change.

Life, in leading us to a place and time of complete enjoyment and fulfillment, chooses often to take the scenic route. Rather than a simple “point to point” journey, we are taken along long dusty roads, dark valleys, and even around what we originally thought our destination would be. This seemingly cliché concept only became real to me when it hit me square in the face during my junior year. Veering off my path to greatness as a high school soccer star, I found and embraced another plan.

To be honest, I wasn’t exactly going to be a star. In fact, during the two seasons I played for my high school’s soccer program, I had only produced two goals, some morale support, and a very warm bench. I began training for my first varsity tryout, knowing that it would be the best team in school history. I accepted this challenge and conditioned myself at a park in my neighborhood. There weren’t goals or lines in the grass; just me, my ball, and a graffitied trash can with which I practiced my accuracy. After a couple of hours of hearing my ball clang against the empty trash can, I would make my way home feeling closer and closer to my goal (pun not intended but left unedited). The night before tryouts I went to bed knowing I would step on the pitch as the best soccer player I would ever be.

If you have ever been to a high school tryout, you know that small talk is a nicety that masks the sizing-up going on in every prospect’s mind. I knew for a fact that I was being ruled out by most of the guys, but I figured I could beat out a few of them and gain a spot on the team even if it meant warming the bench. However, as hard as I tried to impress the coaches, I simply couldn’t keep up with the phenomenal players on the field. Knowing I had given it the ole college try, I trudged up the hill to tell my dad that he didn’t need to drive me to tryouts the next day.

I had planned on trying out for the spring musical, but getting cut gave me the chance to explore my interest in theatre earlier. I remember approaching one of the stars of the program and whispering, “How do I try out?” He showed me where to sign up for an audition and handed me my first monologue. In the monologue, I was to portray a sickly prince with symptoms that even Robitussin couldn’t cure. By audition time, I was feeling considerably worse than the whiny Prince Tartaglia. Despite my body’s urge to deliver my lunch instead of my lines, I was invited to call backs the next day. As I created characters and developed them during improv exercises, I realized that I had found a true passion.

I starred in my first play the fall of my junior year and I was so excited about acting that I auditioned for our sister school’s winter production. Although I’m not the best singer in the world, I even tried out for the spring musical. My love for theatre seemed to be validated when I received a first round nomination for the Connecticut High School Musical Theatre Award for best featured performer. It seemed like I finally excelled at something I couldn’t get enough of. And so, I failed to make the team that would go on to become the second-best team in the state. However, it was only when I climbed up the hill away from the pitch that I discovered a source of true happiness on the stage. It is safe to say that I found greater fulfillment on the scenic route of life.

"Congrats, Shannon! I voted for you!"

The words of a familiar faced freshman girl broke through the nervous thoughts racing around my mind. I reacted by politely thanking her before fully grasping what her words meant. As I continued walking down the 900 Hallway, congratulations and high fives met my steps. I hadn’t realized that during those congratulatory minutes, my body had relaxed into the realization of what this all meant before my mind had: I had been elected Vice President of our entire school.

Catching up to speed with everyone around me, I expressed my sincere gratitude to those whose support placed me in this position. Nikki from volleyball, Alex from chemistry class, Ryan from Youth Group, Charlie from Media Club: voices that chose mine to represent their own. The excitement carried me into my next classroom before any others arrived.

My eyes scanned the e-mail that informed my peers who had informed me. Confirmation came in Times New Roman, size twelve font: Vice President: Shannon Buckman.

As each desk filled around mine, acknowledgments and praise in each one, I took in the scene of the individuals creating a whole. A smile surfaced on my face: my peers had trusted me to embody over one thousand thoughts, over one thousand perspectives, over one thousand students.

Now, each action I take is not only my own; I am a part of a group, an individual of a whole. My constituents have honored me with the responsibility to honor them. This election was never about an individual, it has always been about all of us. It has always been about all of the votes, all of the voices, all of the desks. It has always been about my ability to express, and improve upon, who WE ARE.

8:27 on a brisk September morning: I sat in the health center classroom, surrounded by eight freshmen boys, some slouching in their seats like high-school had already drained the life out of them, others blinking away sleep as the sunlight peeked in through the windows. The faculty member who co-taught the class had called in sick, and in three minutes I was to single-handedly guide the boys through a discussion on gender identity- a difficult feat considering my lack of experience in being male. The clock ticked, a boy to my right broke out in an exasperating yawn, and I stood up, nervous smile playing on my lips, expo marker in hand, and drew an ambiguous box on the whiteboard. Ignoring the simultaneous looks of confusion and boredom, I began class by asking the boys to name characteristics of “real” men. One boy, still adjusting to the idiosyncrasies of both America and boarding school, confidently stated that in Russia, real men could win a fight, while another claimed that real men were never afraid.

“That’s not true,” the boy sitting closest to me interjected, turning towards the other boys, “Peter Parker was scared a lot of the time, but he didn’t let it get in the way. Real men don’t show fear.”

The room heated up as arguments sprang back and forth; I clutched the expo in my hand, furiously scribbling descriptors into the box- never afraid, afraid but won’t show it, brave, and will always win a fight. The more I wrote the more conscientious I became.

“Why can’t real men be afraid?” I questioned, everyone falling silent, “Fear is a natural process. Isn’t being afraid to express emotions a fear in itself?”

I jotted down “double standard” in the box. I was about to ask them what constituted someone who was not “real man” enough when one of the more rambunctious boys blurted out, “showing fear is for girls!”

My breathing slowed. “What do you mean?” I inquired, curious to hear his rationalization. He stuttered, mentioning something about girls being inherently frailer and more susceptible to showing weakness. My eyelids fluttered shut for a second and I could see the blood rushing through my veins, feel the anger blossoming inside of me as my composure crumbled. The boy sat slouched in his corner, guileless, oblivious. He was only trying to express his opinion, unaware as to how his judgment affected me, but I was enraged that instead of comparing men to women he compared men to girls, enraged that in a room where I was their teacher, I was labeled weakest by default- not only physically but mentally, all because of the ubiquitous stereotypes that devolve from skewed portrayals of interactions between men and women.

I wanted to show the boy that I was not automatically weaker than him because of my gender. Maybe he was physically stronger than me because he spent his afternoons at water-polo practice treading across the pool with all his clothes on, or maybe I was because I spent the same time trekking up and down the mountains behind the school. I wanted to show him that frailty was inevitable in any gender, that weakness and bravery are not mutually exclusive. I wanted to show him that there is no simple definition of what a “real” man or woman is- that these archetypes are carved out for us by an industry that neither cares for our well-being nor our proper representation, but I couldn’t do any of this when my body was telling me to walk out the door.

Anger will never win an argument, so I sat down. The silence spoke for itself. I continued the lesson after calmly addressing his point.

That evening, he approached me in the dining hall and told me he was sorry, that he was still trying to understand. It was enough.

July 4th, 2009. Independence Day. My parents are at work. My sister and I are in our bedrooms and the doorbell rings. I answer it without hesitation. I thought robberies only happened in movies.

My sister and I were ordered to lay on the floor; we were held at gunpoint in our own house. It was two in the afternoon, which gave the men enough time to raid every piece of our belongings and bag every valuable item we owned before nightfall. They robbed us of our property, our dignity, and our security, leaving behind nothing but the indelible image of their faces in our minds.

Instantly, I realized this was all my fault. As I lay on the ground, I knew that the men did not find my house by chance, but that the friends I had considered my brothers had betrayed me. My short-lived interaction with a local gang ended when I recognized they had traded my friendship for simple monetary gain by giving the robbers my personal information.

Even though the thieves didn’t hurt us physically, I was unable to sleep at night because of the blame I placed upon myself. I let them in. I befriended the wrong crowd. I traumatized my little sister. The men’s faces did not fade. It was hard to control my anger when at the thought of them. I hated those men.

I began developing trust issues. My friends, the people who I chose as my second family, had wronged me. Everything had been my fault, driven by my choices, my mistakes. This guilt and anger ripped a hole in me, leaving me broken. I knew that time alone would not heal the gaping wound - I needed to let go of my resentment. Forgiveness was the key to my sanity. I needed to forgive my “brothers” and the men who robbed us not only of our belongings, but of our sense of security. As I put the event behind me, the hatred gradually faded away as the wound began to close. But there was still one final stitch to the injury that needed reparation; I had to forgive myself.

Even today, I can still perfectly recall everything that happened on July 4th, 2009, but instead of condemning those men and my old friends, I chose to focus on the spirit they ignited in me to fight back and become a better person. It was the scar they left behind that led me to do everything I can to succeed. I strayed away from the bad influences and surrounded myself with genuine people with similar interests.

Today, I am a leader in my clubs, the executive producer of a broadcast program, the Vice President of an entire scout troop, and a prominent figure in student government. I did all of this because I refused to let the incident take over my life in a negative way; I was determined to stand up to the

I am ready to board the ship, and set sail – pointing towards a bright future of being an ECU pirate. Being admitted into the Honors College at ECU would be the catalyst to a successful future.  As a high school senior, I am considering many universities and believe that being apart of the ECU community would allow me to reach my full potential. Growing up I have always set high standards for myself academically and extracurricularly. I participate in many clubs at my school including BETA club and National Honor Society. Not only do these clubs recognize academic excellence, they also provide many opportunities for community service. Blood drives, food drives and Operation Christmas Child are only a few of the projects that we participate in throughout the year. I am…show more content…
I am accustomed to a rigorous course load and having to manage my time. Being a part of the Honors College, surrounded by those who share the same ideals and high standards as I do, will only further my success. Living in an academically inclined environment would allow for me to make great working relationships and friendships! Not only that, but the Honors College provides many opportunities for study groups and extra help; which will be rather beneficial considering I am planning on majoring in biochemistry. I would be an exceptional candidate for the Honors College because I am not only interested in getting a fantastic education, but I want to get involved in the school and make my college experience the best that it can be. The Honors College would provide many opportunities for the expansion of my education and global perspectives. I would take advantage of all the opportunities granted, and broaden my education as much as possible. Getting involved in the ECU community and making college not only an academic experience but a life experience is what makes me most excited and most hopeful to be part of the Honors

College students could be presented with the dangerous task of writing an essay on a topic that they have no knowledge about and have to attempt to not write any jargon in the process. Just as it is mentioned in the book successful college writing, “writing is a process that involves planning, organizing, drafting, revising, and finally proofreading”. If you somehow are feeling impervious to those ideas, your goals of succeeding will be crushed. Writing needs to be given a guided sense of direction in some form of way or you will not convince your audience of your claim. Ignoring the proper steps to write a logical essay can keep you away from your goals.

Letting your audience know the thought process behind your ideas and statements must be a necessity. ‘’ Critical thinking is the process that involves when you had to think, act, question and evaluate the titles and articles that are featured on the cover’’, and using your thought process to find a relevant topic is what you need. Even if it were an argument about a picture for example, ‘’you need to evaluate and offer a valid source ‘’otherwise you would have lost your argument. One of the reasons behind this is “you need to invest your time in making your choice” to create a strongly written essay. When you develop your essay with no intention of revising it, your doing it wrong.

Out of all of the ways to succeed in college, reading passively is one viewpoint to a whole list of ideas that establish goals, planning activities and managing success. If you want to passively get through college, expect to not understand the material when a non multiple-choice exam comes around. ‘’Think of an essay as a complete piece of writing’’, organizing your sources and ideas can attract your readers and that is exact what you want. If you were to pick your ideas out of the way, that would mean they do not have a plan to support it and that puts them back in a dangerous spot. We don’t want to put ourselves in a place where the reader is not seeing the point of view the author envisions.

Revisions and editing allow the author to extend their view while analyzing what should the next step in the process be. Focusing on the paragraph for example since “each paragraph in your essay should support your thesis and contribute to the overall meaning and effectiveness of your essay”. When you are creatively a passive version of that structure, you could be missing crucial items such as your topics connecting the thesis. Even more items such as a topic sentence or valid sources could be missing. The reader would not be able to fully identify with the description and that “presents information in a way that appeals to one or more of the five senses, sight, sound, smell, taste and touch”.

As writers, we have the power and creativity to show that writing is limitless. In order to make it true, you would need a set of proper guidance. Basic essentials such as having a process analysis which is “guided process of how something done or made and to see all the ideas in the picture”. It makes the material clearly expressed to see there was revision that can make changes to improve both what your essay says and how it is said. Writing in general allows us to express to show our knowledge and understanding but you need to see that passively going cant always be the correct answer used.

After interviewing two of my friends, I have come to the conclusion that college is worth the money. Although since we are international students on scholarship, our opinions may be bias. That is, because we do not have to pay any of the expenses that occur. However, for those without scholarships, we have all agreed that it is not worth the cost. Many individuals who we know not on scholarships are still in debt many years after graduations. The only reason my two friends claimed it is worth it relies on the fact that we do not have to pay for our education or expenses while living here. If I would not have received the incentive from SACM, I don’t believe I would be studying currently. Our government deeply values education which is why many Middle Easter students are granted the opportunity to study for free internationally. Such value should be seen in more countries however, because more skills equates to more societal advances.

Whether or not a college education is worth the money is a controversial topic. Some people believe that this route is the only way to ensure a proper future for oneself. Others challenge this position, claiming that college is just not meant for everyone, and even with a degree, one’s future may not be as bright as envisioned prior. Although both sides of this issue have merit, it seems clear that a college education is not a worthwhile investment because there are simply not enough jobs and debts are very difficult and time-consuming to pay off.

Dale Stephens makes a valuable claim in his article “College is a Waste of Time” by using the rhetorical approach of pathos. In this article he discusses how he quit school to peruse his own dreams independently and the success he felt because of this decision. According to Stephens: “I left college two months ago because it rewards conformity rather than independence, competition rather than collaboration, regurgitation rather than learning, and theory rather than application” (Stephens, page 43, 2016). From this quote we can understand numerous realizations on the education system. This quote also shows the rhetorical approach of pathos within. This relies on the fact that audience members realize the reality of schooling. It brings upon emotion as to the numerous problems within the current education systems. Amongst the most important ideas of this article would be that one does not have to finish school to be successful and have a bright future. If one has intelligence and motivation, just as Stephens had, they can easily find an alternative route that does not include college.

Nemko only furthers the discussion of why college is useless in her article “We Sent Too Many Students to College”. This article focusses on the fact that many students go to college, but many fails to graduate. She stated that individuals who are in the bottom 40% of class more often than not do not make it through all four years of schooling needed to obtain a degree. So why exactly are colleges accepting everyone, despite their unsuccessful situations in high school. Nemko answers that question by stating how schools are greedy and just want the money. They are very aware of these statistics, but at the end of the day, they get paid either way. That is whether the student graduates or not (Nemko,2016). Most of these students whom quit gain no value but accumulate years of debts. Not to mention, many are unable to pay such debt with the crappy jobs they acquire in fast food industries. Thus, showcasing why college is not the answer or worth the amount of debt that one racks up.

Although both claims appear to be highly relevant and hold true, many people still have the false hope that college is worth these escalating costs. In “Is College Worth It, clearly” written by David Leonhardt, he shows audiences how the value of a college degree is significantly rising. Even those with some college have a better chance at obtaining a job compared to those with just a High School diploma. Which is somewhat contradictive to the views held by Le. Which claims that only 4+ years of schooling is the way to go. This relies on the fact that bachelor’s degrees are so common in modern times, that there is so many fighting for one position. To stand out, one must further their education beyond the typical 4 years (Le,2016). Leonhardt also showed how many individuals who have obtained a four-year degree either have difficulty finding a job or feel overqualified for the job they do receive, which strengthens Le’s assertions even more. Therefore, only reinforcing the idea that college is not necessarily worth the associated costs in the long run (Leonhardt, 2016. Even if they are, being overqualified simply does not make the job any better or reimburse the individuals higher income for their added knowledge of components of the job.

Daly and Bengali approach these ideas through a different lens and look at the financial sides of both. These authors claimed that even with such high costs, the overall earnings exceedingly outweigh the debt incurred (Daly & Bengali, 2016). However, this is also very dependent on what job is obtained upon graduation. Logically thinking, any job will cover the costs of college eventually, but time is a far larger factor in all of this. I am certain that graduates are eager to get these debts paid off as quickly as possible in order to not increase the interest rates.

As we can see, there are many differ stances on these topics, however, the answer is not easy to take in most cases. It used to be a lot easier back in the day, people knew the answer with certainty. That is, that college is surely worth the costs associated. However, today’s generation is not so lucky, and part of that is due to the economy, as well as price increases overall. College use to be priced modestly, however, that is certainly not the case now. All the blame cannot strictly be blamed on these colleges though, because students are also part of the problem. Prior to going to school, they discover the costs and what will be expected of them as well. If a student knowingly agrees to attend school and later drops out, the school is not accountable, the student is.

Nonetheless, I feel degrees are losing their value, despite what Leonhardt has claimed in his article. I personally know individuals who graduated and are working in places like Wal-Mart. Long showcases through her article that sometimes

 College is a place of learning, a place where knowledge is challenged, and banks accounts are stretched. It is a place where many different people will all types of backgrounds meet for a common goal, higher education. Universities should ensure that campus are safe and stable environment for all students and facility. Limitation of hate speech on campus is necessary to prevent hate and violence. There are multiple incidents where such hate has been on the rise due to more diverse campus and spread of social media. For example, the fires that were set by students at UC Berkeley, online death threats to African American students on Penn’s campus, racial slur and verbal aggression at University of Missouri (Ben-Porath 14). While limitation of speech on campus might censor ideas, restrictions of speech should be implemented to prevent discrimination and hate.

 To learn, students are granted freedom to question, inquire and discuss various topics. It is also the right of the university that all students are granted a safe space to expand their knowledge. There are many good reasons to limit speech on campus. It has been used to bully and harass others, especially online and it is typically directed to ethnic groups. Hate speech has been used to incite people to commit violence. Tynes et al (2013) suggest that internet racism manifest itself in microaggressions because of the intent to hurt and harm certain individuals or populations. Ethnic students regularly experience prejudice, racism, and hate in online settings.

 Hate has been on the rise in the United States and this is present in our universities. Herbert describes an incident of hate speech at the University of Texas at Austin. A group of students printed and posted fliers that expressed anti-Muslim and anti-immigration context. The same group took it to Twitter to recruit similar likeminded students and created a hashtag, #MakeAmericaWhiteAgain. Herbert also explains the reaction of the students and faculty of the University, many were outraged, shocked but many were scared. The university soon created the “Hate-and-Bias-Policy”. The purpose of the policy of the was to prohibit discrimination and hate on campus. Universities should restrict free speech to prevent hate and harm to others. The incident that happened at Austin is only one of the many examples of hate speech on campus. According to the Foundation of Individual Rights in Education, “48 percent of students think the First Amendment should not protect hate speech” (FIRE par. 2). Universities should a safe space to ensure that each student has an equal right to education. The limitation of free speech is necessary to prevent bigotry and hate.

 Universities should regulate free speech on campus not to damper democracy but because some speech can harm others based on their identities. There are many examples of hate on campus. Hancock describes an incident of how the president of Undergraduate Student Government was harassed. She was the first Indian American to win such position at University of Southern California. She was walking home with some friends when a fraternity boy yelled racial slurs and threw his drink at her (Hancock 1). Hancock then goes in depth on how similar incidents didn’t just happen at USC but many other campuses across the US. University of Maryland had some white nationalist fliers posted around campus. Michigan college students who took photos of black face and wrote captions of cotton picking. According to the Anti-Defamation league, they have identified 107 incidents of “white supremacist flyers on college campuses across the country” (

 For free speech advocates, the prevention of speech will create a single ideology that everyone must follow. The first amendment states that citizens can express and share their personal views even if its unpopular. According to Chemerinsky and Gillam, they believe the limitation on free speech not only prevents democracy but also censors ideas. If a student or faculty makes a mistake, the solution to bad speech is more speech (Chemerinsky and Gillam 39). If universities limit free speech, then they are forgetting their mission and purpose of higher education. Free speech on campus allows for scholars to expand their knowledge without boundaries. It allows for student organization to express and exchange their view with others. It also helps young people to develop new ideas and push society forward with inventions and ideas. Advocates for free speech on campus believe that hate speech creates no serious harm and therefore shouldn’t be restricted. Many believe that the limitation of free speech will also limit the expression of ideas.

 Hate speech allows for a great divide among students and faculty, although it hinders free speech it will prevent discrimination and hate. Universities only act if this speech incites violence which in many cases it does, but by that time its already too late. It is very important for universities to keep a very safe and academic learning environment for all students. Many students and faculty believe that a limitation in speech will just create a safe space for all. According to the “The American Freshmen: National Norms Fall 2015”, about 71 percent of the student population believe in restrictions of racists costumes and sexist speech on campus (Ben-Porath 9).

 In conclusion, the limitation of hate speech on campus is necessary to have a safe and healthy learning environment. Although the regulation of free speech might censor ideas and prevent certain ideologies to grow. We have the freedom to do and say things, we also have freedom from things. When a student’s freedom to speak their minds, impinges on someone’s freedom to feel safe in their environment, then there should be a change in language. Universities cannot create a healthy environment if ethnic student bodies feel like their administration ignores acts of hate and violence against them. Universities should limit speech on campus to prevent verbal conduct that violates the civil rights of women and minorities on campus. Hate speech codes should be implemented at all universities to teach all students to learn and cooperate with diversity. Regulations on free speech is not a way to limit the rights of students and faculty, it is a way that everybody has the right to be equal, safe and have a good education.

I am most excited by Boston University’s Societal Engineer vision. As an aspiring engineer with a strong interest in government, I love that BU encourages engineering majors to strengthen their communication skills and global awareness.



Academically speaking, I would explore political science courses through BU Hub requirements like Historical Consciousness and Ethical Reasoning. In addition, I would explore the world through the semester-abroad programs offered by BU for engineering majors. If admitted, I would love to study in Grenoble (and brush up on my French!) as a sophomore.



Beyond academics, BU’s student groups also align with the Social Engineer vision. BU’s Engineers Without Borders mission spans both engineering and communication, as their project in Zambia involved both in developing sanitation systems and presenting posters on these systems to the community. Given my strong desire to help others through engineering, I would devote my time and energy to EWB’s projects at BU.



I am also intrigued by BU’s political student groups, and I appreciate that BU’s student government offers students from all colleges leadership as Senators. I work closely with my high school’s administration as the vice president of our honor society and the overseer of student elections, and I would enjoy doing something similar at BU.



At BU, I can see myself tinkering with Autodesk Inventor late into the night and petitioning legislatures to fix gerrymandered districts. Because BU’s Societal Engineer vision would encourage both my STEM and humanities interests, I am very excited about being a student at BU.

I am an example of societal rejection. My lack of adherence to gender constructs breaks traditional expectations as my queerness takes over any sense of “normality” that society could see in me. As a queer, nonbinary person of color and an Indian immigrant, I’ve moved away from expectations that demand a definition of my characteristics and have begun to explore who I am on a profound level. It’s this concept of exploration that I aspire to integrate into my education so that I can learn more about others and understand the incomprehensible by any means, whether it be through interacting with different aspects of humanity, connecting with new communities, or increasing my knowledge on a topic.



I’ve found this same ring of curiosity and educational passion that distinguishes Kilachand Honors College and have come to resonate with it, whether it be through the different community based circle meetings, the dissimilar seminars focused on developing critical and creative thinking, or the focus on experiential learning. However, Kilachand takes this interest for learning one step further, adding another dimension to the challenging liberal education through building on layers of global, social, corporate, and geopolitical challenges within the classes. This interdisciplinary aspect of the Kilachand curriculum provides me with the chance to understand issues from different perspectives, which I’d take advantage of to fulfill my professional goal of directing a human rights campaign.



Specific classes like KHC HC 401: Epistemologies and the Process of Inquiry and KHC HC 301: Interdisciplinary Perspectives on Global Challenges offer new intellectual opportunities I have been seeking while also supporting me in utilizing my education in a way that benefits my community. The emphasis placed on exploring the real life impact of students’ work in Kilachand’s integrated curriculum is empowering and would help me use education as a tool to build on my global perspective and make a meaningful difference.



It is my goal to learn more about the unfamiliar so that I can apply that knowledge to “unsolvable global issues” that are only labeled as such because of a cultural disconnect or societal difference. Kilachand supports this goal through offering co-curricular events and residencies where I can connect with other cultures through visiting different cultural institutions or having enlightening discussions with leading professionals. I am inspired by the passion behind the Kilachand community; events such as the POC and LGBTQIA+ Circle meetings are features of the Kilachand community that I hope to contribute to and learn from. By learning about others’ experiences and sharing my own, I aspire to be a part of the intellectual curiosity that is shared among Kilachand students.



The copious academic, cultural, and social opportunities at Kilchand all connect back to the same pillar of change that I have continuously been drawn to. Even though my interests are diverse and follow multiple tracks, the diversity of opportunities at Kilchand resonate with my varied passions and offer an accepting community connected through curiosity, which I hope to contribute to.

“The last 10% is 90% of the work.”



It was written on a small, ripped-off piece of yellow legal paper in fading blue ink. And now, it still sits in my desk drawer, four years after it was given to me by my band director, Mr. Laghari. It was one day in ninth grade, about two weeks before I was to perform my very first audition, that Mr. Laghari strolled over to where I was sitting.



“Alright Kat, let’s hear this district piece!”



What followed, looking back, was absolutely the most mediocre performance you’ve ever heard.



“Well done! I have a few comments for you though. Mainly, it seems like you have the notes and rhythms down, but you gotta add some musicality!”



I had no clue what he was talking about; it showed in my face.



“Expression! Dynamics! You know!”



But I didn’t.



“Oh come on! It’s the last part, right before the audition, the hardest part. You know, my high school band director once told me…”



He took out his yellow legal pad and began writing.



“The. Last. Ten. Percent. Is. Ninety. Percent. Of. The. Work.”



He ripped it off, and gave it to me. And I took it to heart. I looked up musicality, expression, dynamics, and worked to map out phrases in the music. I recorded myself to see what I could add to make it musical.



When the audition came around, I was ready. When they called euphoniums, I enthusiastically left my school’s group and walked with the rest of the auditionees to the holding room. But it was a long walk. Not only did I start to miss the safety of my school group, I started to get in my own head. What if I put in all my hard work for nothing? What would people think? My parents? Mr. Laghari? In the holding room, I squirmed in my seat, waiting for my name to get called. The clock on the wall ticked and ticked, my anxiety building all the while. Finally, my name was called, second-to-last, and as I followed the volunteer to the audition room, I suddenly remembered Mr. Laghari’s slip of paper. I just needed to give my ninety percent. I focused myself, and did just that.



So it came as a surprise to me when Mr. Laghari told me that I placed seventh, and they took the top six players, on the bus ride home. Not only was I surprised, I was crushed. “We’ll get ‘em next year!” he said. But all I heard was “You didn’t make it this year.” It was a bitter trip.



It took me about a week to realize what he said, and that I would crush it next year. I told myself it wasn’t a matter of auditioning to see if I could make it. I told myself auditioning was a formality. And as I looked at the blue ink on that slip of paper, with all of those crushing memories now attached, I told myself that I would give my ninety percent not just on the last ten percent of the work, but on all of it: every year. And with that mindset, I’ve not only placed first in All-Districts on trombone and euphonium, but have made it all the way to All-State.



So, whenever I need inspiration for a project, motivation to finish my homework, determination not to give up, I just open up my desk drawer. And one day in the near future, when I move off to Boston University, that slip of paper is what I’ll be taking with me.

I kept a firm grip on the rainbow trout as I removed the lure from its lip. Then, my heart racing with excitement, I lowered the fish to the water and watched it flash away.
I remained hooked.
I caught that 10-inch fryling five years ago on Fall Creek using a $5 fly rod given to me by my neighbor Gil. The creek is spectacular as it cascades down the 150-foot drop of Ithaca Falls. Only 100-feet further, however, it runs past a decrepit gun factory and underneath a graffitied bridge before flowing adjacent to my high school and out to Cayuga Lake. Aside from the falls, the creek is largely overlooked. Nearly all of the high school students I know who cross that bridge daily do so with no thought of the creek below.
When I was a toddler, my moms say I used to point and ask, "What? What? What?" Even now my inquisitive nature is obvious. Unlike my friends, I had noticed people fly fishing in Fall Creek. Mesmerized by their graceful casts, I pestered Gil into teaching me. From that first thrilling encounter with a trout, I knew I needed to catch more. I had a new string of questions. I wanted to understand trout behavior, how to find them, and what they ate. There was research to do.
I devoted myself to fly fishing. I asked questions. I woke up at 4 a.m. to fish before school. I spent days not catching anything. Yet, I persisted. The Kid's Book of Fishing was replaced by Norman MacLean's A River Runs Through It. Soon Ernest Hemingway's essays found their place next to Trout Unlimited magazines by my bed.
I sought teachers. I continued to fish with Gil, and at his invitation joined the local Trout Unlimited Chapter. I enrolled in a fly-tying class.
There I met Ken, a soft-spoken molecular biologist, who taught me to start each fly I make by crimping the hook to reduce harm to fish, and Mike, a sarcastic Deadhead lawyer, who turns over rocks at all times of year to "match the hatch" and figure out which insects fish are eating. Thanks to my mentors, I can identify and create almost every type of Northeastern mayfly, caddisfly, and stonefly.
The more I learned, the more protective I felt of the creek and its inhabitants. My knowledge of mayflies and experience fishing in many New York streams led me to notice the lack of Blue-Winged Olive Mayflies in Fall Creek. I figured out why while discussing water quality in my AP Biology class; lead from the gun factory had contaminated the creek and ruined the mayfly habitat. Now, I participate in stream clean-up days, have documented the impact of invasive species on trout and other native fish, and have chosen to continue to explore the effects of pollutants on waterways in my AP Environmental Science class.
Last year, on a frigid October morning, I started a conversation with the man fishing next to me. Banks, I later learned, is a contemporary artist who nearly died struggling with a heroin addiction. When we meet on the creek these days we talk about casting techniques, aquatic insects, and fishing ethics. We also talk about the healing power of fly fishing. I know Banks would agree with Henry David Thoreau, who wrote "[Many men] lay so much stress on the fish which they catch or fail to catch, and on nothing else, as if there were nothing else to be caught."
Initially, my goal was to catch trout. What I landed was a passion. Thanks to that first morning on Fall Creek, I've found a calling that consumes my free time, compels me to teach fly fishing to others, and drives what I want to study in college.
I will be leaving Fall Creek soon. I am eager to step into new streams.

Last year in my Constitutional Law class, I fell in love with political and legal philosophy. Sexy, right?
Maybe not, but I loved the rules, the structure, and the big questions that surrounded organizing a government. I thought about these things constantly—while brushing my teeth, doing chores, and driving to school. Unable to take this beloved course a second time, I chose my senior classes with more than a touch of melancholy. I was skeptical that even the most appealing humanities class, AP Literature, would be anything but anticlimactic by comparison. I'd become so accustomed to reading the function-focused writings of Locke, Rousseau, Madison, Thoreau, that I found it difficult to see "literature" as anything more than mere stories. I wanted substance that I could actually do something with, and I didn't expect to find it in AP Lit.
Settling down to read our first assigned book, Sophocles' Antigone, I was apathetic. We'd done a pre-reading exercise earlier in class and I'd gathered that Antigone was just the sad story of a wannabe-martyr-descendant-of-Oedipus who crosses the wrong king, dies, breaks her fiance's heart with her death, leading him, and her would-be mother-in-law by extension, to suicide, blah, blah, blah. I fanned the pages with my thumb, checked the time (10:15 p.m.), and willed myself to make it through the first ten pages without falling asleep.
Rousseau's familiar skepticism of an unchecked ruler, Locke's notions of natural rights philosophy, and Thoreau's willingness to violate immoral laws. Wait—this was a literature class, and yet here was Sophocles articulating the same concerns of the Framers of the Constitution (hundreds of years before any of them were born).

Antigone has become my favorite book because it wraps political and legal theory around complex characters and a compelling narrative. Prior to reading Antigone , I assumed that if I hadn't read every book that pertained to the architecture of US government, I had at least heard of them. But I was so mistaken. Antigone proved this assumption wrong because Antigone itself was a case study in the actual consequences of ideas discussed by political philosophers. In other words, Antigonehumanized the esoteric and function-driven debates I'd studied last year. Witnessing Haemon cradle his dead fiance in his arms, then subsequently kill himself before his father's eyes, allowed me to see all of the ideas I'd spent hours considering as not purely political questions, but as human ones. Finishing the play, I was ashamed that I'd harbored such skepticism at the outset of my reading. My experience with Antigone reminds me why I get excited each time I use calculus in physics or art in cooking, and I look forward to a lifetime of making these connections.

Using a flimsy piece of printer paper, I remember folding my first paper crane. Reading instructions off a dusty origami book from my basement, my fingers fumbled with the paper, folding, unfolding, refolding, and possibly some frustration-induced crumpling. Nearly an hour later, with little creases scattered across its body and a misaligned beak, it was clear that origami wasn't a natural talent of mine.

Despite its deformities, there was an endearing quality to the bird I couldn't quite explain. After sixteen folds, it resembled the paper only in color and material. I would fold countless other designs, until my room was covered with creations from simple paper boats to intricate seven part lotus flowers.

The joy I found in origami lied in the fact that I had the freedom to invent anything; with each fold, creativity flowed through my fingers, converting curiosity of the potential of each fold into an irrepressible desire to create more. It is what motivated me to read about 2D kinematics to win a projectile motion challenge, and understand the chemistry behind qualitative analysis of cations for a lab.

Everything I could ever want to know and more is right at my fingertips. From the change in weight I feel in a moving elevator, to the chemical reactions that cause the plastic stars in my room to glow, science is a field that permeates every single aspect of life. I know my curiosity to understand the world around me nurtures my love for science.

For as long as I could remember, I have wanted to be a veterinarian. I have been responsible for the care and feeding of pets ever since I was in the second grade. In high school, I participated in the 4-H club as well as the Junior Humane society. To reach my goals, I realize that I must pursue an eight year college education which will begin with the Fall 2010 semester. I am very excited about my future and feel that with the opportunity your scholarship will provide, I can help many animals.

My love for animals has been encouraged by my family and friends. I have had the opportunity to volunteer with the local animal shelter and provide basic care to the stray animals. With the help of my biology teacher, I was able to start a 4-H club on campus. Many of the other students on campus developed an interest in the animals and now our club has 100 members. My family also has many animals for which I provide care, including basic needs as well as first aid. I find that I enjoy that aspect of pet ownership best. Unfortunately, my family cannot afford to pay for my entire education, so I hope to use my skills and love of animals to help me pay for college.

Your organization stands for what I believe in. Like your organization, I hope to help animals for the rest of my life. To reach my goals, I need as much help as possible. I already have the moral support of my family and friends, but that is not quite enough to make my dream come true. I hope that your organization can help me reach this dream by awarding me your scholarship.

My parents emigrated from Korea to the US and ran a Dairy Queen business in Florida, which unfortunately ended in bankruptcy as breakdowns in expensive equipment were too expensive to repair. After filing Chapter 7 bankruptcy and being evicted from our home, we stayed in our grandparent’s house for a while, before moving the 8,000 miles to Guam for my father to take a job teaching golf at the Leopalace Resort. My father began to receive delayed payments, and with the employer attempting to run off with my father’s last paycheck, he was laid off – this put an immense amount of pressure on my family and were particularly hard times. The stress of this particularly affected my mother, who was told by doctors she was “days away” from a heart attack during this time. Medical insurance was too expensive, so, to this day, she continues to commute every day to her job taking complaints at a hotel. I truly love her so I have made it my personal mission to help her in any way I can – preparing healthy meals, exercising together and caring for her. Since 6th grade, I have taken full responsibility of healthy meal planning, buying groceries, and preparing meals. I have loved scientific research since the 8th grade storing chemicals in kitchen cabinets and conducting experiments in my makeshift kitchen laboratory. In highschool, I moved out of my parent’s two-bedroom apartment and worked on independently designed research projects at the University of Guam for three consecutive years. I aspired to mitigate the effects of climate change wreaking havoc on our island. I see it first-hand, snorkelling over bleached coral reefs and living through barrages of supertyphoons. With a love for learning and undying resilience, I independently invented a patent-pending sustainable and paintable battery winning First Place and Best of Category at the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair in Materials Science. I felt incredibly proud to represent my island and find innovation in a tiny lab in Guam. My three-year ongoing research project was done independently. I poured thousands of hours into my passion project, turning my kitchen into a laboratory and later moving into a university lab. My research and experimental results were vetted by materials companies/scientists who I cold emailed. I custom-built my own equipment, acquired thousands of dollars of free chemicals from materials companies, designed dozens of prototypes and synthesized thousands of material formulations, tweaking every possible parameter leading to the invention of a new patent pending material for “paintable” solutions towards clean energy and sustainable electronics. To pursue my passion for research, I always had to ask my friends for rides all the way to the university and used any money I had to take taxis to the university (lack of mobility is an issue with two working parents). I stayed at the laboratories from 4-9pm and often lacked money to buy dinner after paying for the taxi, so the Chemistry professor would often buy me food and the science fair organizer on Guam would give me money to print my posters for the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair and other all expense paid science conferences. I’m so grateful for my island community that has helped me out, amidst my background. I dream of pursuing a master’s in materials science and giving back to the outer islands of Micronesia through both scientific research and outreach. I look forward to pursuing my passions and giving back to my island that has given me so much.

My mother loves to tell me that I was born in a garden. It's not exactly true. Her water broke in our backyard garden, and she didn't feel the need to hurry to the hospital. It's my grandmother who came home from work and found her in the middle of the garden that finally convinced her that her tomatoes could wait while I - the baby she needed to give birth to - could not.

She blames those few minutes for my obsession with agriculture, but I believe it stems from watching her care for her garden. I remember watching her plant seeds as a child and being amazed when actual food started growing out of the ground within a few weeks.

I started helping her out in her garden when I was a child, and we volunteered together for the local community garden. As I grew up, I became more curious about agriculture. I started asking questions in school and researching independently to learn more. It led me to the national agriculture summer program for high school students, where I got to learn more about the technical aspects of food production and distribution.

That experience reaffirmed the decision that I have made to learn about agricultural economics and sustainability. I am genuinely excited to learn what we can do to improve the current processes in order to make things better for future generations. I believe that Stanford's sustainability program is the best place for me to do that.

"Not thanking is Witchcraft, Annie. You have to thank people for their effort". Those are my grandmother's words. She often reminds me that the profoundly traditional Shawna people of Zimbabwe, where she and my parents were raised, believe that not thanking is witchcraft more often than I can remember.

As a child, I loved my grandmother but thought she was very annoying. She speaks very little English, and my Shawna is not very good, so sometimes it's hard to understand her. She also loves to tell me stories about the village she grew up in, which I have never seen and will likely never see because, according to her, the foreigners have built shopping malls where it was.

I started appreciating my grandmother when I began learning about oral history in class. It occurred to me that although I was born and raised in the US, I am a Zimbabwean American and most of my connection to my culture comes from her. She always made it a point to cook traditional foods like Sadza for my siblings and me, speak to us in Shawna even when she knew how to say it in English, and teach us about our culture.

My relationship with her and the stories she shares with us have allowed me to connect with my heritage, and they prompted my interest in African history and cultures. So I'd like to wrap up this short essay by thanking her for teaching me and thanking you for considering my application.

Dear future roommate,

The first thing you need to know about me is that almost every song is "my jam". You will probably start rolling your eyes every time I say, "ouh, that's my song" by the end of our first week together. Don't worry; I won't take it personally. I will also try not to sing or hum loudly, but I know this will be a serious challenge, so if I get carried away and disturb you when you're studying or just having some quiet time, let me know, and I will stop.

I hope you're a music lover too so we can listen to some great records together. Yes, you read that right. I said records because I have an old-school record player and a great collection of vinyls that has a bit of everything, including Kendrick Lamar, Madonna, Michael Jackson, and Frank Sinatra.

If music is not your thing, then I'm sure we'll find something else to bond over. I also enjoy reading, shopping, and defending the superiority of DC comics over marvel. I also enjoy trying new things, so I hope you'll be open to introducing me to one of your hobbies. I'm willing to try anything that doesn't involve horses. I know that they are cute and majestic, but one of them scarred me for life, and I am kind of scared of them now.

I look forward to telling you the whole story one day soon and learning about you.

Sincerely,

Jane Doe

Dear future roommate,

Contrary to popular belief in my home, I cannot wait to meet you!

There are thirteen people in my house on most days. That includes my parents, eight siblings, grandmother, and two cousins. Most of them assumed that I would have opted to live on my own so that I could have some peace and quiet. I can see why they'd think that, but the truth is that while I enjoy doing many things on my own- like curling up on the couch with a good book and some ginger tea or drawing- I also enjoy being around people.

One of the reasons I am excited about college is that I get a chance to try new things and meet new people. I like to explore and learn about different cultures, so I hope you'll feel comfortable telling me about where you're from and teaching me about your culture. I am Senegalese-American, and I hope that I'll get a chance to introduce you to some Senegalese food because it is delicious, and I think everyone should try it at least once.

I don't cook very often, but I love food, so I look forward to checking out all the different restaurants on and near campus. I love to spend Saturday nights on the couch with good company, great takeout, and a good movie. If that sounds like a fun night to you, then I think we will get along just fine.

Sincerely,

Johanna

Most children acquire the same eye color or a similar shaped nose from their parents, but I've inherited much more: a passion for learning and an insatiable curiosity which has served me well throughout my academic career. My father, an electrical engineer, taught me to explore the world with inquisitive eyes, constantly seeking to learn more, to understand more. I watched him for hours as he worked on elevator schematics at home, wondering what all the various symbols and lines meant. I was fascinated by technology and wanted to know how and why things worked the way they did.

"How does this toaster work?" "What’s inside this VCR?" I was never satisfied with the simplified answers that my parents sometimes gave to these questions. So I discovered many answers for myself by exploring and experimenting.

My playground was a jumble of old circuit boards, spare electric wire, and an assortment of broken appliances. I spent hours disassembling and tinkering with the amazing treasures I found lying around our garage. My mother, a first grade teacher, noticed my intellectual curiosity and encouraged my childhood explorations. She gave me piles of mind-opening children's books, which I willingly read. Books like "What Makes Popcorn Pop, and Other Questions about the World around Us" allowed me to discover the irresistible appeal of imaginative questions and their fascinating answers.

I was given a remarkable amount of freedom at a young age. When I was 6, my parents bought an old computer for $25 from a local yard sale with the intention of letting me loose on it. I was thrilled. Motivated by curiosity, I delved into it at once and learned how to use each and every feature of the computer's antiquated MS-DOS operating system. With my father's help and an old programming book by my side, I even created simple videogames for my younger brother to play.

My parents taught me to be independent and self-motivated by providing me opportunities to learn by trial and error. I recall an episode where my parents bought a new microwave when I was just 8 years old. As they unpacked the microwave, I caught sight of the owner's manual and asked to see it. After reading the 40-page text front-to-back, I learned one very important thing: how to use a feature called "child lock," or as I saw it, "parent lock." By pressing a special sequence of buttons on the microwave, I disabled it, thus protecting my parents from the dangers of using the appliance without my supervision. Until this day, the first thing I do after buying a new gadget is read the entire manual, in search of nifty features.

My intellectual curiosity is the result of a unique combination of early influences and childhood experiences which have fueled my passion for learning inside and outside of the classroom -- learning from everything I do. I hope to continue applying this curiosity to all aspects of my life, exploring the world through the eyes of my childhood persona. By refusing to accept the obvious explanation, refusing to settle for a superficial understanding, and refusing to endure the status quo, great American innovators like my role model Benjamin Franklin created new knowledge, new technologies, and new innovations. I strive to do the same. It's part of who I am, and what drives me to become successful and happy.

I am an Internet entrepreneur. Since age 12, I have coded and designed websites -- for my school, the local community, and as a personal hobby and pastime. In fact, I started my own Internet business in 2004 and was hired as a webmaster by Intel Corporation this past summer. I also volunteer my free time to run the website of the largest community service club at my high school, Key Club. My interest in Internet technology started out as a mere curiosity and casual pursuit, but has steadily evolved into an intellectual passion that defines who I am today.

When I first signed onto the Net at age 10, I felt a curiosity and zeal unlike anything I had felt before. The Net was my new toy and I wanted to know what made it tick. Thus began my quest for answers. I learned HTML, the basic building blocks of every website. Next, I taught myself JavaScript, Cascading Style Sheets, PHP, MySQL, XML . . . and the list goes on.

At age 14, I started an Internet business called FreeTheFlash Entertainment. The website, (www.FreeTheFlash.com), is a multimedia entertainment portal that collects user-submitted videos, flash animations, and games from all over the Net. In the process of starting and maintaining this website I’ve learned leadership, communication, and business skills that literally define who I am today. I’ve learned that innovation and new ideas are crucial in creating anything successful and worthwhile in today’s rapidly evolving technological landscape.

In the last year alone, my website reached over 620,000 visitors who viewed over 3 million webpages. I’m proud of my web development talent because it allows me to share my creativity with the world, while providing others a vehicle to share their creativity as well.

Upon first sight of my room, you might get the impression that I am an unorganized, pack-rat slob. There are piles of clothes lying in heaps around the room and the only way to determine if they are clean or dirty is to sniff each article of clothing individually. Empty videogame boxes are arranged inventively on my dresser and floor. The bed is a mess and the pillows are nowhere to be seen. You may say to yourself, "I can't room with someone like this." But, remember the familiar adage "you can't judge a book by its cover?" That is as true as can be when it comes to me.

Don't get me wrong. It's not like I couldn't straighten up my room if I wanted to -- but I'd much rather be reading the latest issue of Fortune Small Business magazine, studying, or rolling out new improvements to my half-dozen websites. I'm always scheming something new; I've been known to spend many hours dreaming up fresh business ideas. Fortunately, this "messiness" is only limited to my room, and no other parts of my life. I'm consistently ahead of the game with my homework and I meet every extracurricular commitment without a hitch. Perhaps it's because I never skip a beat in my school, social, and business lives, that I'm forced to skip several beats when it comes to cleaning my room. With only 24 hours in a day, I must prioritize the order in which I tackle projects. For this reason, cleaning my room often takes a back seat to that upcoming Calculus II test or the launch of that new website I've been working on for the last 3 months...

I understand the importance of a clean living environment and I've been working on straightening my room more regularly. I'm confident that by the time we meet, I'll be able to keep the cover of the book looking as first-rate as the pages inside.

For six years I've been designing websites and Internet applications -- doing what I enjoy, what I excel at. I've pursued my ambitions and developed a fervor for Internet technology as a medium for expressing ideas and communicating knowledge. I've learned first-hand the power of this technology to reach out and make connections with people, to effect change, to make a difference in the world.

There is no better place to study Internet technology than Stanford, the foundation for many of Silicon Valley's most innovative companies -- Google, Yahoo!, Hewlett-Packard, and Sun Microsystems. I want to be immersed in a learning environment that encourages innovation, teaches creativity, and fosters an entrepreneurial spirit. I want to go to a school where I can live among students who have the same appreciation for learning and drive towards excellence that I have.

My dream is to push the envelope of Internet technology past its existing boundaries and limitations, to bring new innovations and new ideas to the global marketplace. What better place to strive for this dream than at Stanford? With esteemed programs like Stanford Technology Ventures and the Mayfield Fellows Program, a world-class faculty, and state-of-the art research facilities, Stanford is the ideal university for the budding Internet entrepreneur like me to excel both academically and socially.

There is still a lot to be learned about software and the Internet, and I hope to be on the forefront of new developments. I'm not afraid to break tradition; to do things better than they’ve been done before. At Stanford, the leading institute in Internet development, I can make my dreams of leading the Internet to a new generation a reality.

When I moved from Long Beach, CA to Philadelphia, PA in the seventh grade, I encountered an environment far different from the one I had become accustomed to. In Long Beach, every day was a struggle for survival. By the age of nine, I had witnessed the death of my mother and one of my best friends getting shot. Moreover, academics were often overshadowed by the gangs and violence that surrounded my home. In fact, if you were not in a gang by fifth grade, you soon would be, and I was no exception. However, everything changed in 2006 when my grandma moved me and my sister to Philadelphia.

…I began to honestly enjoy learning all the new applications for the calculus concepts I had been learning alongside physics, previously unaware of just how intertwined they were. The relationship between position, velocity, and acceleration through derivatives and integrals tied everything together in a way that made so much sense it gave me chills.

After a few study sessions, I began to devour YouTube videos to prepare for the test, and each time I understood a new concept by learning it on my own, I felt more accomplished and intellectually independent. As I worked through practice problems and self-corrected my way across old exams, I felt driven to stop excusing or dismissing my mistakes, and to instead pull them apart by analyzing exactly why I had made them to target and avoid them in the future. This experience improved the way I study and showed me the value of truly mastering knowledge on my own.

“How do you make pianos?

In 4th grade, I entered and won PBS’s Curiosity Quest question contest, resulting in my co-hosting a Curiosity Quest episode at New York’s Steinway and Sons Piano Factory. There I realized for the first time what can be found beyond textbook teachings. I saw the palpable pride the factory had in the heritage that they displayed, and the stunning beauty of a legacy and its centuries of refined knowledge. After that day, it was as if my consciousness had awoken. I resolved to begin creating my own legacy. I spent early morning hours in front of my piano daily, determined to make it my art — all because my curiosity rewarded me with knowledge that expanded the depth and range of just how far I can strive in this world.


Theory of Knowledge teaches of knowledge’s paradox: The more we know, the more we don’t. In retrospect, TOK put into words what I’ve since sensed — this inexplicable duality of filling a void that is ever-expanding. What began as a simple question of how something was made laid the very foundation upon which I’ve grown to ask questions that dig deeper: Why is there more inequality today than a century ago? What, if any, measures can be taken to end the conflicts in the Middle East? How can I further my legacy through striving to address these issues?



And as always, my quest for curiosity will serve to dually nourish and enlighten me, expanding my world once more.

Ahem…May I make a toast?



First off, I am so pumped to live with you. I don’t have a sibling, so this is as close as it gets! Also, I just wanted you to know…



I’m an ENFJ. I’m not nearly as brilliant as Obama or Oprah, but I do fancy the idea of sharing traits with them! ENFJs are “focused on values and vision, passionate about the possibilities for people, tuned into the needs of others, and tend to be optimistic and forward-thinking” — sums up my personality I’d say!
I free my mind by exercising and writing. Our campus’s fresh forestry is perfect for morning/night runs/picnics. It would be so fun if you joined!
I’m one to stay up all night to chat over coffee and pastries. I’m also one to venture out and walk/bike ten miles for Polaroid pics and yummy eats. Yelp4lyfe.
I have a passion for fashion. I love it because style is universal and uniquely personal (read Worn Stories). I have a blog dedicated to learning about global cultures/styles — can’t wait to study abroad!
I’m so deeply humbled to be surrounded by exceptional, passionate people like you who are going to rock this world. I had visited Stanford three times before applying, and I had written on my secret blog during my 2nd visit that my heart felt so moved to call this place home one day.


Well, I couldn’t be happier to be home with you.



Cheers,

Name (or nickname)

When I was younger, I aspired to be rich so I could own an enormous library. I imagined the sense of self-worth and pride that would accompany gazing at floor-to-ceiling sturdy, oak shelves almost bursting under the weight of beautiful volumes in various languages. As a child, complete success and ownership of what you love feels completely plausible, a dream only kept from you by the restrictions of time.

The only difference I saw at that time between poor and rich was the public library users and the library owners. The only thing keeping me from the latter was the barrier of age and motivation, which I was sure I could overcome by harnessing knowledge under my fist and using it to attain anything I wanted. I continued to hold this view while I was homeschooled, but when I began to attend a private high school, I realized that the difference between basic economic security and the lack thereof was much more complex.

In the past three years I have come to see that not only are my peers unlike myself, but they do not know that there is a difference between us. No one understands the concept of economic insecurity if they have never had to give up their summers and afternoons after school to work to help with bills, if they have never had to pay for their own expenses and textbooks, if they complain about having dinner with their parents, never having experienced a time when their parents were at work before breakfast and back after their bedtimes. The only other people my age I have encountered who truly understood this were those whose knowledge was also founded on personal experience.

But the worst part about this lack of awareness is the fact that I consider myself to be very privileged. Certainly, I have to work, but I also go to a private school. I can’t afford the to get my driver’s license like the others in my class, but I own a smartphone. The issue is not that most of the people at my high school don’t see me, it’s that they don’t see anyone who is worse off — those who can’t afford to go to school, who have to work longer hours than me, who are separated from their parents at the border — they don’t see any of those people, not really. Even amongst the most politically liberal, there seems to be an underlying current of fear and denial that prevents the most basic empathy. This has led me to the question: Why?

All my life, the process of buying books has been inherently thoughtful. It involves exploring used bookstores, carefully considering and handling every book before buying it. I choose the books that I own carefully because I have to. Even after I buy the book, I read it with appreciation, and then retire it to a shelf which is not a symbol of my money, but a road map of my true thoughts and interests. I value my books more than anything else because of the thought they provoke.

From this, I have learned what the people who can stock their shelves full of new, leather-bound books don’t: thoughtful awareness. That’s what separates me from my schoolmates. No matter their political identity, people don’t often think about issues that seem distant from them, if for no other reason than they don’t have to. Because of the perspective my economic circumstances have given me, I actively engage with new ideas and perspectives in order to avoid making the same mistakes as those around me which might cause someone’s knowledge or needs to be overlooked due to their personal circumstances. I think and I act.

I have come to understand that the rich people I envied as a child might have enormous libraries, but they certainly don’t have them to read the books.

There is a loss of imagination resulting in the lessening of both individuality and empathy. People rarely take the time to introspect and consider what makes them distinct and why they ought to own that, and at the same time they fail to consider how others also have unique value.

Working half-time (2018) and full-time (2019) at the Dry Eye Company (my mum’s business) to fund school and save for college; Taking two classes (English Composition, English Literature) at Olympic College (local community college); Taking Driver’s Ed; Reading books (particularly Classics, Russian Literature); Writing (prose, poetry, and social commentary)

Yiannis Ritsos writing poetry from inside the Greek prison camp. I want to understand whether he did it for himself to get through the experience or to rebel against lack of free speech.

Intellectual, genuine, self-actualized, determined, stalwart

Having interesting conversations (academic and non-academic) with a new diverse group of people. I come from a little town with little diversity of perspectives, so getting to know how others see the world is very important to me. I think this is part of what makes a rich learning environment.

The classroom thrummed with energy and anticipation. It seemed counterintuitive, what could elevate Thomas Hobbes to the exciting? But in the history classroom, somehow the energy of my history teacher’s animated face lit the room and caused minds to ponder new depths.

We had split into little groups of three and four, and I was seated with people I had spoken probably two words to outside of class. But, such is the power of conversation, we all poured out our ideas. It was that collaborative sense of hearing different perspectives and piecing together fragments to create the mosaic of history.

It is that height of academic conversation that excites me to learn. Learning transcends all backgrounds, having elements that go beyond subjective experience. At the same time, it unites different perspectives, because the more perspectives there are the more complete of any idea we find of the truth. I went from a little frightened at the prospect of shedding the comfort of my friend group to growing exuberance as I heard ideas I would never have thought of about Hobbes according to different people’s interest. People who naturally think about context took a structuralist approach, one economically inclined person saw the reading through a Marxist lens, another a feminist critique — far more than would ever have been thought up by one individual.

This little history discussion about a seemingly dense and objective text brought the life to learning for me by showing me the power of perspectives and conversation.

Most Esteemed Future Roommate,

If you walk in at 2:00AM to find me lying on the floor listening to depressing music by Vysotsky and clutching a volume by Homer or Dostoevsky like a teddy bear, please do not be alarmed. As an only child, I have never had to share my room except with a parent, and so the transition might be a little rocky (although I by all means invite you to my carpeted book and anguish club). Further, books have always brought me comfort, whether to escape from loneliness or the crowd (usually the latter, I’m rather introverted), and I alternate between daring to socialize and retreating upon a few beloved volumes to which I give equal or greater affection than people. In that line — I desire to know all of your favorite books — or the ones you detest — in order to know you better! Whenever I meet people, I think of what their story would be like, what author’s voice it might be written in, what the title would be. Needless to say, hit me up if you every want to borrow a book. Or a pen.

Yours bookishly,

Chaidie

The novel Phantastes by George Macdonald was my childhood favorite book and crops up again in my mind with new meaning every passing year. As a child, my mum read it to me, and I loved it so much that it was one of the first full books I read on my own. Its meaning to me then was in the story; I admired the artful crafting of characters, artistic faerie lands and realistic houses which mingled reality, metaphor, and the grotesque with beautiful language. It played a large role in my early attempts at writing fantasy fiction and short stories. In middle school I reread it again, and found new meaning in the complexities of the characters and the changes in mindset and belief that Anodos, the main character, experienced throughout his trials. Several years later, after having developed an interest in Classics and having studied my own Greek heritage more in depth, I loved Macdonald’s incorporation of aspects of the Classical Greek world, from allusions to mythology and philosophy in the descriptions and characters to the Greek etymology of many of the character names (Anodos meaning ‘to progress upward’). Still an enthusiast for Classics and an aspiring writer, my current self still finds meaning in this childhood favorite. I revel in Macdonald’s brilliant use of language and mobilization of the metaphors of all time; it is his application of the Classics that inspire me to pursue that subject along with others to enrich my own writing and communication.

January 9th, 2007 was not your average Tuesday. At 11 a.m. CST, Steve Jobs was scheduled to deliver his highly anticipated MacWorld keynote. Like other Apple fanatics, I anticipated something huge and knew I couldn’t miss watching Jobs unveil Apple’s next genius innovation. Late Monday night, my mom finally relented; she would allow me to skip school the next day. In doing so, she acknowledged something that to this day everyone in my life knows about me. The innovative spirit of Apple has become a profound part of who I am and how I see myself: as an intrepid innovator, a young entrepreneur/business owner, and someone who, from the second I could pick up a mouse, has been obsessed with everything techy.

Cords, gadgets and screens have been my signature since infancy. According to my baby book, my first real word was “hose.” I thought those long green things in people’s yards were outdoor electrical cords. At age six I wanted only one thing from Santa: an overhead projector. “He” found one on eBay. At age eight I purchased (with my own savings) and installed (by myself) a dazzling holiday light display that not only lit up the entire neighborhood but our electrical bill as well. This same year I launched my first successful business: Tony’s Tech Help. Two years later and after saving many months’ earnings, I invested in my first laptop. I was unaware at the time how that purchase would significantly kindle my computer science curiosity.

My new best friend was that new MacBook Pro. I spent hours learning about it while my parents spent hours screaming: “Too much screen time!” At age 11, I was authoring hacky programs and writing bits of code. At age 12, I rented my first server and became fluent in multiple programming languages. In 8th grade, I didn’t just go to school; I spent time each day monitoring my servers and maintaining more than a dozen websites for local businesses and nonprofits. At age 15, I had the idea that would become my next business.

Enter Minecraft, the defining game of my generation. It was Fall 2012 and I started dabbling in coding Minecraft server “plug-ins.” It didn’t take long until buzz about my work grew and I became one of the recognized experts in the global server community. Then came an idea: develop team combat matches organized by server plug-ins on unique Minecraft maps, a concept no one else had yet brought to market. What came next was a prototype, and then growth: from a dozen players on my development server to more than a hundred players on my first 24/7 server. People loved what I had to offer! Just a few months later my infrastructure built on Java, Ruby, MongoDB, and Nginx was exploding with new subscribers and became “The Overcast Network.” By 2013 I was seeing nearly 100,000 unique users and more than 1,000,000 page views per week. I also saw competing servers popping up attempting to mimic my concept. Watching my idea become a wildly successful business was an incredible feeling. In the last 10 months, unique users and page views per week have doubled. I’m also about to present at the international Minecraft convention, Minecon, on the panel “Growing Server Communities.”

While designing the gameplay, website, and overall user experience of Overcast, there is something that not only keeps me inspired, but keeps the frequent feeling of chaos from becoming overwhelming: Apple and Steve Jobs’ legacy. Their everlasting inspiration teaches me time and again about innovation through design, simplicity and the value of risk-taking. As I look to what’s next in both my computer science education and in my life as an entrepreneur, I will, as Jobs’ himself urged in his 2005 commencement address at Stanford University: “Stay hungry, stay foolish.”

The most intellectually challenging experience of my life has been applying ideas across multiple fields of study -- from physics, history, statistics and programming; to excellent writing, critical thinking, and persuasion; to applied economics and business ethics -- toward the development of The Overcast Network. My LLC is not based solely on eight self-taught computer languages. It’s an enterprise requiring my whole academic self, including more knowledge and research than I could have ever anticipated.

I’ve also learned a great deal about leadership. Almost out of the blue I was CEO of a startup. The community I never set out to create grew rapidly and suddenly people looked up to me. I had been somewhat of a leader in grade, middle and high school, but this was different. Not only was I at the helm of Overcast, I wasn’t completely sure how to navigate what was ahead, mostly because I didn’t know. Abandoning ship was not an option. Rather, I sought the wisdom of a host of experts: attorneys, established entrepreneurs, business leaders and heads of non-profits. It has been, no doubt, the biggest research project of my life.

One day, 14 months ago, my role as entrepreneur and leader was punctuated when I noticed, on one of my servers, a private message from a user I didn’t know. He disclosed: “You’re my role model.” Like most people, I have role models. Never would I have imagined I could be someone else’s, especially at the age of 17.

Hey roommate:

Can’t wait to meet you! Here are top ten things you should know about me, the guy with whom you’ll soon be sharing a very small space.

Being from Minnesota, you’ll make fun of my accent and my wardrobe. I’ll wear shorts and T-shirts in January; the weather is in California is always warm compared to where I’ve lived for 18 years.

I’ll miss my beloved dog, Fred. Even at 5.5 lbs, he serves up endless love and fun.

Before my morning cereal, little conversation please. After that, I’m super pleasant.

If you have problems with any technology, I can fix them lightening-quick. No charge!

One of my regrets was not discovering study groups until junior year of high school. Once I found new friend groups and awesome study partners in my honors and AP classes, intense study became immensely more manageable (and enjoyable)! I love to invite people over and learn together.

I will play Minecraft.

Fair warning: I will probably make you play Minecraft.

My friends describe me with a single word: “Sass.” I love to laugh, argue, and tease!

I’m not a “suck up,” but really enjoy engaging teachers and getting to know them. I’m never afraid to talk to someone with whom I’m unacquainted.

My parents and sister have already pre-paid multiple weekends at “The Stanford Guest House.” They can’t wait to see me (and escape Minnesota winters, too)!

See you soon!

- Tony

Giving back matters. My desire to serve started at a young age. In December 2nd grade, I recall watching our local NBC station conduct their annual Toys for Tots’ campaign, a massive effort inspiring organizations to collect toys for in-need kids. In 4th grade, I decided to act, launching Tony’s Toys for Tots. Soliciting from neighbors, teachers, friends and relatives, the annual tradition began. Each November and December I watched the progressively larger pile of new toys grow in our basement. In winter of 7th grade, my final year of Tony’s Toys for Tots, we needed multiple vehicles to deliver the nearly 300 toys I had single-handedly collected.

Beginning in 9th grade, I shifted my giving to Cristo Rey Jesuit High School Twin Cities, an innovative school situated in urban Minneapolis and serving some of our communities’ most underserved youth. The past four summers I volunteered countless hours helping their technology department provide reliable computing resources to Cristo Rey students. I’m proud to have played a small role in the 100% of Cristo Rey seniors accepted to college or the military.

Most recently, I’ve taken on expansive tech-responsibilities for Prodeo Academy, a just-opened K-8 charter school with a mission of bridging Minnesota’s achievement gap. In partnership with The Lawlor Group, I continue to design, develop, and maintain Prodeo’s web presence, run their email and Google Drive, and provide on-going support.

I’m excited to continue my tradition of service, and to fully engage my new community of Palo Alto.

During the summers before my junior and senior years I not only volunteered a lot, but worked 50-60 hours a week building my business, The Overcast Network. Wanting to be around creative entrepreneurs, I rented space in a hip warehouse downtown St. Paul. I’d get to the office by about 9 a.m. and do programming almost all day, sometimes late into the evening. My friends thought I was crazy; they forced me not to work late on Fridays and keep Saturdays open! They, unlike my parents who have come to appreciate my passion and drive, were simultaneously concerned and intrigued: How could a teenager have so much excitement for a job? What I experienced these past two summers was incredible. I love my job. In an age when most people (especially teenagers) are stressed and/or don’t enjoy their work, it’s exciting to feel exactly the opposite.

“I started playing guitar when I was three. Then I asked for a drum set, and after that, a bass. Finally, I asked for a piano—but a vibraphone was different. When I was asked to play the vibraphone two weeks before the concert, I emphatically proclaimed that I would do it. I was thrilled about the opportunity to learn a new instrument without prior knowledge; it was an exciting challenge.

Every bit of free time I had, I spent practicing. I practiced on actual vibraphones, imaginary vibraphones, pianos, and every surface that I could use as an imitation because a vibraphone is not easily transportable. Every note meant something to me: a new method, interpretation, or technique. I felt like an author who learned new words or a researcher who discovered a new technology. In the dress rehearsal, I finally played the piece correctly. Unfortunately, I broke my collarbone before the concert so I never had my vibraphone debut.

While I did want to do well in the concert, I truly enjoyed the process of learning to play a new instrument. When I learn something new it is like I am given a new instrument; every instrument comes with new ways to interpret music. There are so many ways to explore each instrument and what it is capable of. Instruments are everlasting conduits for expression. In the same way, new ideas never cease to promote further learning. Learning is an exciting process, made up of many instruments to explore.”

I want to watch George Washington go shopping. I have an obsession with presidential trivia, and the ivory-gummed general is far and away my favorite. Great leaders aren’t necessarily defined by their moments under pressure; sometimes tiny decisions are most telling–like knickers or pantaloons?
Here’s another nice example response to this prompt:
I wish I was in the studio the day Norman Rockwell finished “Triple Self-Portrait.” I would love to have gotten a chance to ask him about capturing America at a specific time in history and what he thought it might look like in the future.

Unapologetically sarcastic. Fashionably questionable. Hungry.
Bubbly, Conscientious, Articulate, Philosophical, Non-conforming
Playful Nocturnal Pikachu. Collaborative aesthete.

What’s more probable: dying from a shark attack, or dying from falling airplane parts? Surprisingly, the answer is falling airplane parts. But why does our intuition point us towards shark attacks?
The answer lies in the availability heuristic, or the WYSIATI (“what you see is all there is”) rule, which describes how our minds evaluate decisions based on how easily we can think of examples to support both sides.
From Jaws to YouTube surfer videos, we have all likely heard of a horrific shark attack, and by WYSIATI, the ease with which we conjure up that memory leads us to assign a greater probability.
Learning about WYSIATI evolved the way I communicate my ideas. When I first started the debate, I over-focused on comparing statistics at the expense of clearly communicating larger arguments. WYSIATI taught me that a more effective approach involves weaving in memorable images like that of a horrific shark attack.
This past summer, when debating whether labeling environmental activists as “eco-terrorists” is justified, my opponents cited dozens of crimes associated with activists from 1995-2002.
With my knowledge of WYSIATI, I looked past the numbers and searched for more memorable, image-based examples and discovered that most of the so-called terrorist acts were actually “pie-ings”: environmental groups throwing pies to protest.
So, instead of responding with only numbers, I declared that “the only thing that could make pie-ings terrorist acts is if the activists didn’t know how to make a good key lime pie!”
Much clearer. And perhaps, a little bit funnier.
Nice, right?

Achieving highly, obtaining status, accumulating abstract monetary value—society glorifies this
combination as the ultimate aim of existence and yet, there is no greater waste of intellectual and
creative capacity. One day, one’s name will fade from the collective mind and that green paper
will dissolve into dust. I desire to have a more meaningful existence. It is art, it is philosophy,
and it is science which will leave a footprint in the sand of time. Money and power are little more
than means with which to attain greatness. The most paramount basis of my endeavor is
education. Throughout my life I have come to realize the importance of education and I strive to
transfer to the most educationally conducive institution and conduct research.
I always knew I was gifted, but I took it for granted. Two years ago, I would have never even
considered applying to an elite institution, let alone attending one. Two years ago, I just wanted
to get an education—any education. This dramatically changed during the spring semester of
2013. I was fortunate to have stumbled into Mrs. Starla Lewis’ communication class. The first
time I saw this inspiring and nurturing person, she stepped inside the classroom with a warm
smile on her face and said in a soothing but uplifting voice, “Hotep! Peace, love, blessings, and
prosperity!” I knew right then and there I had come to the right place.
I always knew I was gifted, but at times, I thought I had wasted my gift. Shortly before that
semester had started, my husband told me he wanted a divorce and I was terrified. I knew if we
stayed together, we would destroy each other but I was worried if he left me, I would get
deported and I would be homeless, again. I kept replaying the words my father in Germany had
thrown at me when I told him, I wanted to move to the United States and get married, “in five
years, you’re gonna stand in front of my door with two children and no education!” I did not
have children but he was somewhat right: I had no education. The community college courses I
had taken would mean nothing in Germany.
I always knew I was gifted and I finally came to appreciate it. At the end of the semester, I was
still in the same situation but I had come to view it differently. No more did getting a divorce
mean being homeless. Getting a divorce meant freedom. I could go wherever I wanted and I
could take my life into my own hands without making compromises for anybody else. I could go
to an elite school if I wanted to and why would I not? Every Tuesday and Thursday I was
reminded enthusiastically that I was BRILLIANT, POWERFUL, and LIMITLESS. Mrs. Lewis
always emphasized that each and every single one of us had a gift, a gift that only we could give
to the world.
I always knew I was gifted and I do not want to waste my gift. I realized that somebody who has
a gift has to give it. I could graduate in a field that will promise me a career and a lot of money
and I have thought about it. In the end, I would be disappointed in myself. I think people of
exceptional intelligence have the responsibility to use their intellect to serve society. They can go
into politics, become artists, authors, or pursue scientific inquiry. In my case, I would serve
society as a psychological researcher. I want to make discoveries about the human mind that will
give others the opportunity to become more empowered. At one of the top institutions in the
country, I would not only receive a rigorous education, but I would also have the chance to be
mentored by an already esteemed individual.

Thirteen—intricate lines of ink, thinner than hair, flow and swerve alongside, intertwining into
what we recognize as a person. A pretty girl with a bright smile on her face stands tall with her
fist firmly pressed into her hip. Her attire tells of adventures. It enthralls your imagination. I must
have stared at this picture for hours. I wanted to draw. I, too, wanted to touch people with
intricate lines of ink, thinner than hair, flowing and swerving alongside to intertwine into what
they would recognize as beauty.
Fifteen—“YOU’RE CASTING PEARLS BEFORE SWINE! YOUR IQ IS SO HIGH, YOU
COULD BE AN ACADEMIC AND HERE YOU ARE FAILING 9th GRADE!” I was silent.
My face was petrified into a frown that sent a sharp sting right through that bit of flesh between
my eyebrows. This insignificant number had set my father’s expectations to a higher niveau. I
often skipped school weeks at a time. I was terrified of recess; terrified of the teachers’ voluntary
blindness. Day after day, I crouched behind a wall, hearing footsteps, hoping they would not find
me.
Sixteen—that summer I moved into a foster youth group and went to a new school. Somehow,
my social awkwardness did not interfere with my sudden popularity and my friendly but cocky
roommate boosted my confidence. When I moved into my own apartment at the age of
seventeen, I had become a different person, someone I actually liked for the first time in my life.
Nineteen—eerie black smoke, rising into the red atmosphere of the night sky; firefighters hosing
down seemingly impenetrable flames… Incredulous? We soon came to appreciate the reality of
our situation after we were relocated into a tight office building where we continued to receive
an exquisite education from teachers armed with chalk and dedication.
Twenty—I met a young American man over the internet. I fell in love with him.
Twenty-one—I traveled half-way around the world. I met the young man in person. I found out
he was in love with me, too. After graduating, I decided to take a break from my education to be
with him.
Twenty-two—I got married. I cut all ties to Germany. He had reservations and did not submit my
green card application in time. I got denied. I had to go back.
Twenty-three—I was waiting in a room full of other destitutes to get a stamp that would
designate me as homeless. I sat silently as I stared at a drunken man who had no future ahead of
him lying on the floor. I thought to myself I had sunk to the lowest possible level. I was mad at
my husband; mad at myself. I felt as though my life was over. The only thing that kept me sane
was what had saved me my entire life—the secret escape route into my imagination.

"Medicine, law, business, engineering—these are noble pursuits, and necessary to sustain life.
But poetry, beauty, romance, love—these are what we stay alive for." I could not put it more
bluntly than Robin Williams in his quote from Dead Poets Society. I am heading toward a career
in psychological research and I hope to contribute information that will enhance the lives of
many. However, what I work, eat, and sleep for is and will always be art.
When I look around the world, I see suffering large and small. People work themselves to death
without ever having shed tears in appreciation for a beautiful work of art. The wider I open my
eyes, the more injustice I see. We live in a day and age in which women have the legal standing
of men, but the feminine role still requires dependence. We live in a day and age in which people
of color have the legal standing of white people, but the role of a person of color still requires
subservience. We live in a day and age in which homosexuals fight for the same legal standing as
heterosexuals, but the homosexual role still requires remaining Other. Until we shed our limiting
role schemata, we cannot fully enjoy the beauty that is all around us. It is the psychologist's
responsibility to free our psyche from the fog that clouds our view of the spectacle before us.

When we arrived at the local shelter in 5th Street, Brooklyn, I was admittedly excited to be part of helping the community in the simple way we were – giving food and clothes to the homeless. This was my first time being actively involved in charity, and it felt fulfilling as I smiled and grinned at the people at the shelter. However, as the day progressed, around 3’ O clock I saw a young man around the same age as myself seated by himself, and I remember thinking to myself, “This could be me in another life. If it was, what could’ve possibly led me to be in such a position? Would that mean I’m less deserving or a consequence of my choices?” Suddenly I was putting myself in the shoes of the mothers with kids, people who seemed to be struggling with drug addiction, and it gave me a sudden fear of losing the life I’ve been so privileged to have.

As a kid, I had a small body which resulted in me being the tiniest person in most of my classes in middle school. Due to my size, I used to get picked on and rarely made friends in the hope that the situation would change in high school. I always craved to be invited to birthday parties and interact with my peers during co-curricular activities to no avail, blaming my body size and peers at the same time.

When I joined high school and grew in size, I thought this was my chance to make friends and become more social. Three (3) years in high school, I was still struggling with the same issue. With so many questions and self-doubt, I decided to take a different approach to my issue and ask for help from the school guidance and counseling teacher, Mr. Atkins. Through his guidance, I found out the problem was from within and not external. All this time, I expected my peers to initiate conversations and make advances without putting in the effort to attract the same.

I worked on my confidence and became actively social, which helped me interact with my peers than I could not have imagined as a kid. This taught me to always carry out self-assessments before criticizing myself for my issues and have grown significantly as a young person hoping to pursue a career in journalism.

Looking into my mother’s eyes, I could see the disappointment. Not once had she ever had to come to school due to either of my older siblings getting into a fight. “Was that my best option? Getting into an unnecessary fight with Tim? Will she understand if I explain?” I kept asking myself. Tim had always harassed Marvin, my best friend, whenever we were at lunch. Once I found my courage to explain my side and told my mother and the principal of the continuous harassment Marvin had faced from Tim and the reason why I resorted to getting into a fight. They both seemed to be understanding but still condemned my behavior and urging me to report such issues instead of resorting to such an act. Marvin was able to enjoy his lunches peacefully afterward.

Poetry has been a part of me as far as I can remember. Unaware at the time, it was going to influence my career choice. At just eleven years of age, I had won The Social Awareness through Arts (poetry category) Prize of 2009 in my school. The winning poem I had written was talking authoritarian structure of management in our school, a topic that was frowned upon at that time but was a major problem that needed to be addressed.

Fire!

Was I no longer the beloved daughter of nature, whisperer of trees? Knee-high rubber boots, camouflage, bug spray—I wore the garb and perfume of a proud wild woman, yet there I was, hunched over the pathetic pile of stubborn sticks, utterly stumped, on the verge of tears. As a child, I had considered myself a kind of rustic princess, a cradler of spiders and centipedes, who was serenaded by mourning doves and chickadees, who could glide through tick-infested meadows and emerge Lyme-free. I knew the cracks of the earth like the scars on my own rough palms. Yet here I was, ten years later, incapable of performing the most fundamental outdoor task: I could not, for the life of me, start a fire.

Furiously I rubbed the twigs together—rubbed and rubbed until shreds of skin flaked from my fingers. No smoke. The twigs were too young, too sticky-green; I tossed them away with a shower of curses, and began tearing through the underbrush in search of a more flammable collection. My efforts were fruitless. Livid, I bit a rejected twig, determined to prove that the forest had spurned me, offering only young, wet bones that would never burn. But the wood cracked like carrots between my teeth—old, brittle, and bitter. Roaring and nursing my aching palms, I retreated to the tent, where I sulked and awaited the jeers of my family. Rattling their empty worm cans and reeking of fat fish, my brother and cousins swaggered into the campsite. Immediately, they noticed the minor stick massacre by the fire pit and called to me, their deep voices already sharp with contempt.

“Where’s the fire, Princess Clara?” they taunted. “Having some trouble?” They prodded me with the ends of the chewed branches and, with a few effortless scrapes of wood on rock, sparked a red and roaring flame. My face burned long after I left the fire pit. The camp stank of salmon and shame. In the tent, I pondered my failure. Was I so dainty? Was I that incapable? I thought of my hands, how calloused and capable they had been, how tender and smooth they had become. It had been years since I’d kneaded mud between my fingers; instead of scaling a white pine, I’d practiced scales on my piano, my hands softening into those of a musician—fleshy and sensitive. And I’d gotten glasses, having grown horrifically nearsighted; long nights of dim lighting and thick books had done this. I couldn’t remember the last time I had lain down on a hill, barefaced, and seen the stars without having to squint. Crawling along the edge of the tent, a spider confirmed my transformation—he disgusted me, and I felt an overwhelming urge to squash him.

Yet, I realized I hadn’t really changed—I had only shifted perspective. I still eagerly explored new worlds, but through poems and prose rather than pastures and puddles. I’d grown to prefer the boom of a bass over that of a bullfrog, learned to coax a different kind of fire from wood, having developed a burn for writing rhymes and scrawling hypotheses.

That night, I stayed up late with my journal and wrote about the spider I had decided not to kill. I had tolerated him just barely, only shrieking when he jumped—it helped to watch him decorate the corners of the tent with his delicate webs, knowing that he couldn’t start fires, either. When the night grew cold and the embers died, my words still smoked—my hands burned from all that scrawling—and even when I fell asleep, the ideas kept sparking—I was on fire, always on fire.

The clock slowly ticks on…

Tic, toc, tic, toc….

It’s 3:30 am and everything seems to be asleep. Normally, I’m coding at my desk with a glass of orange juice. What am I coding? Depends on the night, but you can tell from my whiteboard, as each night there is something new on it. This week it was modeling the flow of a rules engine for validating bank wires, one part of my work for Microsoft. The week before it was filled with data-flow models from my React UI to a SQL database for an app my school asked me to build.

Tic, toc, tic, toc….

But why am I doing all of this so late into the night?

I’m battling time. Seeing how much territory I can claim before my moments are up.

Tic, toc, tic, toc….

I didn’t know how to handle the idea of time as a kid and, when it became too much, I’d hide with my two stuffed dogs, my white blanket, warm vanilla milk, and the Calvin and Hobbes book The Days Are Just Packed. Under that blanket I would curl up and lose myself in Calvin’s antics as Spaceman Spiff.

Tic, toc, tic, toc….

Eventually, I found a much better way to deal with time: through soccer. Each day I would come home and rush through homework so I could go outside and practice until it got so dark I couldn’t see my hand in front of my face. But after suffering twelve major injuries in between 6th and 11th grade I could feel all the time that I’d lost while recovering. This led to a burnout and caused me to transition away from soccer. So I did. During my recovery time I’d learned to code through personal projects and CodeAcademy. As I entered high school, coding started to take over, and all the time I’d poured into soccer instead went to coding, which led to some exciting personal projects such as a physics equation solver, a chip8 emulator and a compiler for my own language. {...}

Time never stops, so why should I? Why should I stop learning? I don’t think I should. I plan to continue waging my battle against time by learning everything that I can. And I will. But I also won’t forget things I love: Calvin’s sled, homemade pastas, lacing up cleats, and tinkering into the night. ”

Ever since I was little, I have possessed a unique fascination for nature and the way it interacts with itself. As I sat in the prickly seats of old tour buses and the bilingual tour guide has silenced himself for the dozens of passengers that have closed their curtains and fallen into deep slumber, I would keep my eyes glued to the window, waiting to catch a glimpse of wild animals and admiring the beautiful scenery that mother nature had pieced together.

At Outdoor Science Camp, while most of my friends were fixated on socializing and games, I was obsessed with finding every organism in the book. Nothing else caught my attention quite like ecology. As high school dragged on and the relentless responsibilities, assignments, and tests washed away the thrill of learning, ecology was one interest that withstood the turmoil. At the end of a draining day, I would always enjoy relaxing to articles detailing newly discovered species or relationships between species.

This past summer, I was able to further this interest when a unique opportunity to volunteer abroad caught my eye. Flying over to the beautiful tropical shorelines of the Dominican Republic, I was able to dive into the frontlines of the battle against climate change, dwindling populations, and habitat destruction brought about by mankind, and I enjoyed every moment of it.

While everyone was obviously ecstatic about snorkeling in the crystal blue waters, only I was able to retain that same excitement about trekking through knee thick mud and mosquito infested forests to replant mangrove trees. While tracking animal populations, my heart leaped at the sight of every new species that swam right in front of my eyes. Even when it came to the dirty work of building structures to rebuild coral and picking up trash along the beach, I always found myself leading the pack, eager to start and do the most. From this experience, I realized that pursuing the field of ecology was what I could picture myself doing far into the future, and this was how I was going to impact the world.

Sourced from 103 Best College Admission Supplement Essay Examples 2021

UNC-Chapel Hill, North Carolina: What do you hope will change about the place where you live?

There aren’t many places where everyone is free from prejudice. One exception is a basketball court. The first time I stepped on a basketball court, I was expecting the usual joke about my race or the judgmental questions about my culture. But they never came. Everyone I met had unique perspectives on everything, from basketball itself to politics, and they were open and willing to share. I began to open up more about my background – how I couldn’t tie my own shoes until I was 10 and that I’m the only person in my family who loves hip-hop music. I was willing to share my experiences because there were no judgments made about me.

Despite living in an ethnically homogenous area, on the court, I met and connected with people who have different backgrounds and interests. Coleman, now one of my best friends, who is in love with Greek architecture, or Gavin, who is the only member of his family who isn’t a Packers fan. The culture of unity and acceptance that is fostered is not due to the courts themselves, but due to the common goal everyone shares. I hope my community will find ways to build more places that promote what I have experienced on the basketball court – areas where everyone is respected for their perspectives rather than judged by their race, religion, or beliefs.

Computer science is at the core of my academic passions and my life ambitions. What I value in life is being around brilliant technologists. At Columbia, I have worked with and befriended the most driven and gifted programmers I’ve ever met. In January, I formed a team with three Columbia freshmen for MIT’s annual strategy-game-playing artificial intelligence competition. Ben, Ryan, Koh and I spent the month reviewing matches, debating approaches and tweaking our models. More than once we coded through the night. Their caliber was clear in the subtle insights that their multi-disciplinary backgrounds gave them and they gave me something to aspire to.

I have many interests that lie outside of my intended major but that I want to continue to pursue, and Columbia provides an environment for those diverse passions. Recently, while at a Columbia math club meeting with Ben, I ran into a political science major, Mathieu. He was elated to point out the insights that a love of math granted him in his courses and his conviction encouraged me to explore the peculiar intersection of the two fields.

I love teachers who love to teach. At Columbia, I’ve seen faculty who have a love for what they do and who care about students. While touring, I sat in on a quantum mechanics lecture. Professor Norman Christ strode into the room at eight on-the-dot and jumped into a discussion of WKB complex value approximation. For three straight hours, he guided us through the intricate world of QM without any notes. His enthusiasm brightened that drizzling Monday morning. That I could follow the lecture at all is a testament to his lucid explanations and extraordinary knowledge. When I came to him with questions afterward, he helped me truly understand a topic that initially felt years out of reach.

There’s a moment in the 2017 film The Florida Project where our young protagonist, seven-year-old Moonee, stands with a friend in front of a cow pasture.

See, she says triumphantly, gesturing to the grazing animals as if presenting prizes on a game show. I took you on a safari. Without hesitation, she runs toward the cows, laughing: Let’s go.

In Moonee’s world, ordinary cows are majestic creatures, and she wants nothing more than to chase them. She plucks small pleasures from the mundane, turning dilapidated pastures into exotic landscapes.

She pursues these things with a rare kind of love: pure, exuberant, fiercely determinate. The Florida Project encourages me to chase the small things in my life with immense passion, with a Moonee-esque determination to live breathlessly, unhesitatingly. This film beckons me to run forward to the cows, nudging me into the world as if to say: Let’s go.

The sounds of my knife striking kale unnerves my cat asleep in the corner. He quickly runs over to examine the situation but becomes instantly uninterested when he sees green and smells bitterness. Unfortunately, my family has this same reaction every day of every week.

They question, “It’s bad enough that you’re going to eat kale, but do you really have to massage it?” I respond with a deep breath, during which I recall information from nutritionfacts.org. I begin to explain, “Well you see, it takes away the bitterness, because kale is composed of cellulose, so when you massage it with a strong acid–”but as I continue to delve into my rather scientific and oftentimes molecular rationale behind transforming myself into a masseuse to make a salad, everyone begins snoring. I guess no one has ever understood my immense love for the science behind cooking (and probably never will).

Sure, my family, friends, small, undiverse and traditional high school all look at me like I am crazy, but I guess that is because I am. I do not look at kale and think “dark green, bitter, disgusting plant.” Instead, I see proteins and anticarcinogenic properties--analyzing the anatomy of food seems to occupy my mind.

Cooking is an art, visual, creative and instinctive. My favorite nights are spent with knife in hand and sweet potatoes in the oven. Food is my artist outlet, and one of the few things to feed my soul (and my stomach, too).

I had spent almost three weeks in the Alaskan wilderness, and yet I hadn’t had any profound epiphanies about life that I thought a month-long backpacking trip might spur. Having had very little alone time on the trip––we had to stay in groups should we come across a bear––I was understandably very excited when our instructors announced that we would have over an hour to stare out at the landscape and reflect. We each found a nook in the hillside where we would be invisible from each other, leaving just myself and an expanse of untouched mountains. Being surrounded by such pure nature, it was impossible not to think about how this beautiful scenery came to be. My mind drifted to a dilemma I often wonder about: should I use a scientific or religious lens to contemplate the workings and history of the world around me? Being profoundly passionate about science and invested in Judaism, I am always thinking about how I can reconcile these two concepts in my life.

Science inspires in me a sense of curiosity that constantly has me asking questions about the things I experience. During that hour in Alaska, I watched the ground squirrels run and wondered how their bodies work to help them survive in the freezing winter. I focused on the mountain I was sitting on and thought about what processes must have taken place to shape the massive collection of rock and dirt that I saw that day, and how it might be different in a year. The fundamental intention of science is to understand how we interact with the world and use that to our advantage, and I want to use science to help people. It gives me a unique sense of purpose, knowing that the more I inquire and learn about the world, the better my ability will be to improve the lives of others. Every time I read an article about people using science to help people, whether its a new type of prosthetic being invented or a new form of water treatment being developed, I feel a spark of excitement knowing that in just a few short years I could be contributing to these amazing discoveries.

Despite this sense of agency I derive from science, it was difficult not to feel small when looking towards the horizon with nothing but towering mountains in sight. Being such a tiny speck in the universe, it’s sometimes difficult to feel that I’m truly in control of my life. As a teenager going into my last year of high school, there are lots of unknowns for me––socially, academically, or otherwise. In my world of often irrational uncertainties, religion makes me feel secure. Every time I get on an airplane or I take a test, I mutter a prayer for a safe flight or a good grade. The belief that God is watching over me makes me lift my head a little higher, take important risks with less fear, and know that I can make a difference in my life and the lives of others. Science might dictate how I interact with nature, but it is Judaism that has taught me how to interact with people. Growing up learning the moral and ethical principles of my religion, it is in the words of these lessons that I get the inspiration to go out and seek out problems in need of fixing.

Through so much reflection it has become clear to me that the intersection between science and religion is to help others. While religion teaches me the idea of tikkun olam––repairing the world––science provides me with the means to achieve this goal. This dilemma continues to change my perception of the world while shaping me into a better person.

One of the aspects of Cornell Engineering that appeals to me most and that would bolster my problem-solving abilities is the particularly large variety of engineering fields that I would have the opportunity to explore. I know that I want to study some form of engineering, but I’m not necessarily sure which specific major I’d like to pursue. I’m positive that out of the 14 different programs, I’ll find something that I’m very passionate about. I think there is incredible value in having a large array of classes to take outside of my major; when approaching any engineering problem, it is almost always necessary to approach it from different angles. For example, when building a robot, you need to think about the electrical, mechanical, physical, and programming challenges involved in the process. In the future, I hope to apply my knowledge of several strains of engineering to solve relevant and complex problems.

As important as it is to develop a diverse set of academic engineering perspectives, it is equally important to establish a varied set of social perspectives. I believe that in order to improve the world, it is necessary to fully understand the issues we face. The only way to do that is to be conscious of the experiences of people from all different backgrounds. I have Mexican parents and have been immersed, alongside my American upbringing, in Mexican culture my whole life. In going to Mexico often, I have been locally exposed to a very different culture than here in the United States. That being said, I’ve encountered relatively limited diversity in school so far. I think that Cornell’s Diversity Programs in Engineering would be the perfect way to mesh my intellectual passion with my desire to achieve an even more acute sense of social awareness. With DPE, and more broadly Cornell as a whole, so focused on collaboration, I really feel that I would get the experience necessary to fully analyze and tackle the engineering problems that our society faces from an array of social viewpoints.

Another facet of the Cornell Engineering program that I am excited about is the myriad of opportunities that I would have to explore engineering outside of the classroom. I believe that in preparing myself to help the world it is important to gain experience in a setting where I will likely find myself at some point in my career: doing research. Establishing a project with a professor would allow me the perfect chance to learn more about my favorite areas of science, develop a close relationship with some of the faculty, and learn what it’s like to work in a lab. From getting a project approved to properly write a research paper, I would become even better equipped for a future in the scientific world. Lastly, the part of Cornell Engineering extracurriculars that I am most excited about and interested in is the multitude of Project Teams that the school facilitates. Not only would my cooperative problem-solving skills be further improved, but I would also be able to directly apply the lessons that I learn in my classes in real life. Cornell is the only place I’ve seen that has such an incredible and vast system of projects for undergraduates that provides the opportunity to so directly help others. I am currently taking a Sustainable Engineering class that has made me more aware of the impact I can have on the environment as an engineer. I feel that joining one of the Project Teams could be the next step up from learning the theory of how to improve the world to actually designing and building something that can truly benefit society on a larger scale.

Within my school, robotics had never been a significant aspect of the educational environment.  While sports and the fundamental academic subjects were stressed heavily, the ideas surrounding robotics never manifested themselves anywhere other than a one-month intercession class, which of course I took in 11th grade.  As someone extremely interested in anything related to STEM (especially programming and robotics), I wanted more than that.  Looking around at other schools, I saw that many of them had a robotics team or club. At my high school, I was determined to have the same – even if I had to create one. So, I decided to create/found the Robotics Club. After acquiring the appropriate teacher/moderator and getting the club signed off by my principal, I went on to officially begin. Sending out school announcements and spreading the word, it immediately started to gain attention from other students. We had our first meeting where I made known the mission of the club: to design, build, and explore robots in all their aspects and to work together to accomplish a common goal.  Our new members were excited to hear that we were starting up the club.  Finally, they could build robots and have an opportunity to compete in tournaments.  However, we were missing a key component: the robots.  I worked with multiple teachers asking if I could get the funding for the materials. This year, we received the hardware that we needed and are beginning our first project: a robot race! Though it is just beginning, I am aiming to make this a permanent club at my high school, corroborated by leadership positions and dedicated members. At the moment, I am collaborating with other high schools to possibly work together in tournaments, or even have regional tournaments with local catholic high schools. All in all, my efforts to build, design, and implement the Robotics Club at my high school have helped members develop a sense of teamwork and expand their knowledge on robots.

Going into high school, I wanted to be in the accelerated math program. Math was my favorite subject and I had always been at the top of my class.  To get into the program you had to take Honors Algebra the summer before freshman year. I thought it would be a walk in the park, but boy was I wrong.  It soon became ‘Math Hell.’  I quickly found out that I was ill-prepared.  The other students had already covered the topics and I soon fell behind.  I always got A’s and now I was getting D’s and F’s. I was devastated.  I became more and more lost in the concepts. I couldn’t grasp certain ideas, and the course was progressing far too fast for me to truly understand them.  However, I didn’t let this stop me. I kept forging ahead to understand the math, asking my teacher questions on certain topics, and taking guidance from my father. I struggled immensely, but I simply would not give up. My parents advised that I drop the course, but I told them that I wanted to continue. I wanted to learn math and be in the accelerated program.  This wasn’t simply for the grade anymore; this was for my own understanding and passion. I was studying 6+ hours a night during the week and 12 hours a day on the weekend.  Through hard work and perseverance, I was able to bring my grade up.  By the end of the class, I had the highest grade on the final exam and got into the advanced math program.  Through my refusal to give up, I discovered my passion for mathematics along with the skills of determination and persistence.  Before this class I just did the minimum to get an A.  Now, I always do my very best in all my subjects.  This was a turning point in my life where I realized that my studies/homework were not just requirements for school, but rather to further my knowledge.

Throughout my high school career, my love for science, technology, engineering, and mathematics has increased exponentially. However, in this vast area of subjects, the one academic subject that inspires me the most is computer science. During the past four years, I have independently worked on various projects, activities, and jobs relating to the field. In my spare time, I have created numerous different programs in many different languages (C++, Java, HTML, Python, etc.) to accomplish some task. Usually, it is some sort of a mathematical problem like accepting user input to list the number of primes up to a certain limit, listing abundant numbers, or testing the Collatz Conjecture. Besides just creating independent console applications using Visual Studio, I also enjoy researching and applying various aspects of computer science. A recent example is my creation of ABC.com a blog/website dedicated to educating others about net neutrality and the controversy surrounding it. Another is my publication of the XYZ app, an online educational website that donates 10 grains of wheat to developing countries for every question answered correctly. I recently also published my new game QWE, an endless obstacle point-based game. At the moment, I am working to design and publish a website that offers “math trivia,” allowing students to practice their addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division through the click of a button. In the workforce, I have had two internships that were both related to programming. Throughout my first internship at ABC Technologies, I worked with a program to transfer data files from one format to another while also debugging/testing other modules. During my second internship at DEF Inc., I designed, coded, and implemented a program to alter the decibel level of a utility camera to ultimately change the voltage level. As one can see, computer science has been an enormous part of my life and is by far my favorite subject. However, I don’t let it stop there. I want to expand my horizon by implementing computer science into different aspects of society, possibly resolving world issues and educating others, like in XYZ.

As a senior this year, I was elected as a Big Brother, helping to lead a group of 8 freshmen in their retreat, ultimately helping them feel welcomed to the school. As part of this retreat, I planned a full day and evening of activities and discussions with the new students.  We participated in a food drive, and I spoke to them on topics related to social issues they may encounter in high school as well as faith-based matters.  I found this experience to be very rewarding as I continue to see those freshmen doing well on a day-to-day basis at school.  Since my sophomore year, I have participated heavily in my local church, where I have helped extensively as a youth group leader. Every Sunday, I have attended meetings, lead small groups, played guitar in worship and helped with many other activities. In 11th grade, I was also a confirmation sponsor for one of the teens in my group. Through this, I have helped further students’ faith in their journey towards Confirmation while also sharing in the enjoyment of community service. On the global level, in 10th grade, I was selected to travel to Mexico by my high school.  Every year, the school chooses several students to participate as student helpers.  I traveled with a medical team from an organization called ABC International to supply free medical care to local villagers.  I spent 2 weeks in Mexico, helping to set up and take down a makeshift hospital, administering eye exams and eye drops to long lines or patiently waiting people of all ages.  The fact that I spoke some Spanish was comforting to the patients.  Knowing that I helped make a difference in their lives was one of the most rewarding experiences I have had.  I hope to do more volunteer service at this level in the future.

"Hello my name is Roy Hon nice to meet you," stiffly mumbled a boy with an awkward accent, eyes full of fear and uncertainty. Immersed in an unknown environment at the age of thirteen, everything seemed uncertain to him. In this mysterious land, people existed in all shapes and colors: black, white, blonde, brunette, and every combination in between. Despite these physical differences, however, everyone shared one thing in common: English, the language that tied lives together and facilitated communication between diverse individuals. The foreign boy, however, knew little of the English language, able to understand and speak no more than a toddler in that tongue. He never imagined one day settling in the United States or eventually sitting in his room and composing a college essay in English.

Upon first arriving in the U.S, I was extremely lonely, lacking any friends or family in whom to confide. This massive transition in my life saddled me with great pain and sadness. At school I seemed invisible while at home, television provided my only companionship. I missed China, longing for delicious authentic Chinese foods and thirsting for the love of my big family and dear friends. I clung to memories of my previous home to inject warmth and happiness into my otherwise dismal life.

Building relationships was not easy, as I was fearful of approaching others due to my language deficiencies. "If only I could speak English," I constantly thought.

"If only I could speak English," I would not seethe with anger whenever someone openly mocked me, responding with a bowed head or fake smile.

"If only I could speak English," I would stop shaking when speaking in front of my class.

"If only I could speak English," I would earn grades that accurately reflected my intellect, rather than simply marks of "OK" on tests.

"If only I could speak English," I would not have to answer questions by simply nodding or shaking my head.

Such thoughts filled my head every day, each tantalizing me with how my life would improve if I could speak English. Again, however, I realized I was living in a fantasy world; I had fallen into the habit of simply dreaming about how my life could improve and wishing that things were better rather than actually striving to enact those improvements. Realizing this, I became a pragmatic person, focused on the present and working to turn thoughts into action. I forced myself to communicate, even if doing so occasionally caused embarrassment. Once upon arriving to class late, the teacher greeted me with, "What's up, Roy?" Not understanding this colloquial phrase, my eyes glanced upwards, before refocusing on the teacher as I answered, "Nothing." Immediately laughter rippled across the classroom; I laughed too, though without knowing why. When class ended, I gathered my courage and asked my teacher to explain what had happened; I wanted to learn, even if it was initially embarrassing or confusing.

If only I could speak English: instead of a refrain of remorse, I used this thought to motivate my growth. It helped me overcome the struggles I faced in this new land, turning me into a realistic, social, and confident individual. By forcing myself to make friends in school, I became outgoing and independent, willing to interact with diverse classmates. As I did so, I realized that I had become friends with half of the people in my grade. In opening up, I found that the world was not nearly as scary or dreadful as I had feared; instead, it was full of warmth and positive energy. Previously, I had lacked friends not because I couldn't speak English, but because I had built wall around myself with my negative energy and focus on what I could not do. Now, though, I am vice president of the Chinese Culture Club, a top student, and a confident friend to many.

Looking back, I still remember the innocent and quiet boy who arrived in this country, afraid of even trying to talk. How far that boy has grown; now, I am a man who loves greeting others: "Hey! What's up, I'm Roy, it's a pleasure to meet you!"

Passengers dozed peacefully in the cramped, cold, and dark cabin, eye masks on. A sudden jolt, riveting the plane, spurred only a few grumbling snorts from the unconscious travelers. The engines droned while chatty flight attendants gossiped behind a curtain.

Everyone seemed at ease, if not bored. Passengers stared blankly at the monitors in front of them and stewardesses sighed when summoned by blinking lights bearing their caricatured silhouettes. I imagined pilots, surrounded by panels of crude switches, nodding off in the wake of the vast and empty frontier ahead of them. I, however, found the flight neither boring nor exciting; as a twelve-year-old, everything about air travel terrified me. My white-knuckled fists, glistening with cold perspiration, clamped onto the nearest armrest at the mere hint of turbulence. My breath came in shallow gasps as I kept my ears perked for any sign of disruption in the engine's consistent rumble. I bawled during takeoff, clenched my eyes shut while landing, and remained fidgety and sour in the intervening hours.

This phobia began affecting me long before my actual departure, days or sometimes even weeks in advance. At first I would lie awake into the wee hours of the night, actively calling forth violent fantasies of what could very well happen during the coming flight. My first vision would be of a quick death: the plane explodes, instantly consuming all its passengers in the conflagration. I considered this possibility most preferable, as I would not have to endure the torturous moments of panicky contemplation that would accompany falling to my death. What if the plane did not simply explode, though? What if a wing dropped off at 30,000 feet? My fantasies would delve into every conceivable disaster, each less plausible yet more terrifying than the previous. Just how carefully did they inspect the engines?

In fact, my mind would be so consumed by thoughts of my impending demise on the flight that the prospect of survival would was begin to seem improbable, despite my continued existence flight after flight. On this particular trip, though, my fears were nearly realized. After settling into my seat as much as I was capable after takeoff, my gaze flickered out the window, coming to rest on the billowy plains below. My father joined me and began naming the illuminated grid patterns and landmasses gliding by beneath us when he noticed something I had not: a stream steadily flowing out the edge of the wing.

We called for an attendant, who in turn brought the captain.

I tried not to look or listen as the pilot arrived at my seat to observe the phenomenon. He craned his neck in what seemed a scrupulous observation and, after a few moments of squinting, delivered his analysis.

"We should call this one in."

My father and I leaned forward, expecting more explanation or at least some tangible emotion. "And...?"

The pilot, however, returned to the cockpit without answer, apparently realizing that we would not be able to comprehend, much less do anything about the information he had just gathered.

Eventually technicians determined that the fluid streaming out of the plane was, in fact, jet fuel, and though our supply was sufficient to reach our destination despite the leak, a lightning strike or spark of any kind would ignite the plane's left engine, sending us ablaze into a spiraling freefall terminating in the dark Pacific. No doubt this would delay our arrival. At this announcement, two passengers had seizures and a jittery man seated behind me had to be handcuffed. Most, however, remained quietly anxious in their seats and either resumed napping or continued to stare cross-eyed into the tiny monitors ensconced in the headrests of the persons in front of them.

Remarkably in this tense situation, I suddenly stopped obsessing about crashing. Now that I was actually facing real aviation danger, I refused to let fear overwhelm me during what could have been the last moments of my life. Though the chances of our plane being struck by lightning still hovered at roughly half of one percent, those tiny odds were still far greater than the chance of encountering an accident on any other normal flight, which had previously been enough to scare me into near total incapacitation. The increased threat of death did not send me into panic, instead focusing my thoughts on my goals and future. In that situation, I clung tightly to the two very important people sitting next me as I reminisced about those I would leave at home and imagined the new friends and acquaintances I might never meet.

I realized then that fear was really just noise, a mere distraction drawing me away from the issues of real importance in my life. It was tunnel vision, corrupting my mentality, consuming me totally in its overwhelmingly irrational, one-dimensional state. It was an addiction and a vice, and I had lived with it for far too long. Because of it, I had grown used to enduring flights like I did the nightmares I contrived; they seemed to never end.

Thanks to my newfound clarity, the remaining hours of that tense flight slipped away without dread, and I never again obsessed over our odds even as we touched down. Instead, more important things replaced those figures and fantasies, such as the duties and goals I aspired to accomplish during my life. Rather than focusing on fear, I resolved to direct my energies and thoughts at all that I have left to accomplish. While I have no control over possibly perishing in a freak airplane accident, I do have the ability to improve my chance of attaining my dreams; thus, I intend to spend my life constantly looking forward, rather than worrying about how high I rise or how far I may fall.

Another excellent free college application essay designed to help inspire college-bound students working on college and university application essays.

"Let me help you, ma'am; all you need to do is match the number on your bingo board with the number I call out. Whenever you have a match, just put this little red chip on top of it. And of course, don't forget to say 'Bingo!' when you have a line of five red chips." After providing this instruction, I smiled at the lady and reflected on my work. As I was teaching that eighty-year-old woman how to play bingo, she, along with many other seniors, was teaching me how to live a fulfilling life.

As a dedicated volunteer at Deaconess Hospital, I work closely with elderly patients, both organizing and participating in activities. Since the summer of my junior year, I have played a vital role in assisting with bingo games for patients, helping to set up and run those games almost every Saturday. Then, prior to the start of each game, I go around the room with a colorful bowl collecting twenty-five cents from each of the players. Despite the measly sum of the fee, however, I often struggle to gather the funds; very few people willingly give up their money. One regular participant in particular -- Ruth -- always gives me enormous trouble when I try to collect a quarter from her. The moment I enter her sight, she never fails to say something like, "You again?" or "Don't bother -- I don't have any money." Despite her seemingly negative responses, I have never been discouraged; instead, I have come to consider those harsh words her normal greeting.

After batting over money for several minutes, I can finally get the game underway. I start calling out numbers while the participants are still chatting, as they never completely quiet down no matter how many times I ask; just like kids in kindergarten, they have endless things to talk about. As I shout numbers, though, another battle begins. No matter how loud I scream, Gordon -- another regular player -- often interrupts by shouting back at me, "What was the number?" or responding to my call of "Fifty!" with "Sixty?" Annoyed by his constant questioning, other players then inevitably begin shouting at him, "It's fifty! Five-oh!" Impatient comments such as "Stupid," would then fly about the room, causing me to start calling out numbers by their digits to avoid further conflict.

Every so often, one of my elderly acquaintances stops showing up at the center altogether. In asking about their whereabouts, I usually discover that they have passed away, "Gone on to a better place," as my supervisors put it. Though a relatively common occurrence given the age of this population, I still find it sad every time this happens. Despite their stubborn unwillingness to part with a quarter, ceaseless talking, and impatience combined with hearing loss, those bingo-playing seniors have inspired me greatly. Observing them has taught me how to truly enjoy life. Even with their difficulties moving, communicating, and remembering, my elderly friends still manage to live happy and fulfilling lives, treasuring every moment of their days. They also refuse to let problems, however large or small they may be, overwhelm them.

In reflecting on this, I find it amazing that young people, physically and mentally strong, complain about so much. They waste their time on alcohol and drugs, and fritter away their lives with ridiculous, mind-numbing pursuits. Working with elderly patients at the hospital has taught me that everyone gets only one chance in this world. Thus, we should strive to make the most of every day, a goal that now motivates me in all of my undertakings and a lesson that I aspire to share with others.

With moments to spare, I catch a glimpse of the boarding platform for my train. Like a captain frantically seeking port in a storm, I haul myself through the turbulent ocean of people, trying to avoid being stranded – or trampled – in the dustiest city in the world: Beijing, capital of both China and smog.

Luckily, I board my train with seconds to spare, and without being turned into a pancake – always a plus. The conductor welcomes me aboard. At last, it is time to return home to Shanghai.

It is the summer of 2012, and Shanghai isn’t to be home for much longer. In another week I will cross the globe to start a new life in a foreign land called Charlotte.

Which is home? The place I am leaving or the place I am going? Arrival or departure? Like a compass with a broken magnetic strip, I can’t decide my true North.

Unsettled, I turn to my ever-present book for comfort. Today it is The Things They Carried by Tim O’Brien, already worn and slightly crumpled. They say the best books tell you what you already know, resonating with your own thoughts and emotions. As I read, it is as if the tempest of my thoughts is spelled out on paper. The overflowing sense of hyper-reality in Tim O’Brien’s words of warfare spills into my world. His words somehow become my words, his memories become my memories. Despite the high speed of the bullet train, my mind is perfectly still – trapped between the narrative of the book and the narrative of my own life.

I feel like I should feel disturbed, but I’m not. I read the last page and close the book, staring out the window at the shining fish ponds and peaceful rice paddies. I feel like a speck of dust outside the train, floating, content and happy to be between destinations.

I am at home between worlds. I speak both English and Chinese: Chinese is for math, science, and process, but I prefer English for art, emotion, and description. America owns my childhood, filled with pine trees, blockbuster movies, and Lake Tahoe snow; China holds my adolescence, accompanied by industrial smog, expeditious mobility, and fast-paced social scenes.

We are drawing into Shanghai Hong Qiao station. My reverie isn’t at an end, but I have the answer to my question. Home is neither arrival nor departure, neither America nor China. Home is the in-between, the cusp of transition – that is where I feel most content.

I won “Most Original” pumpkin at a Halloween party years ago. I have the “Most Original” award. It’s a consolation prize. You can’t be the best, or the prettiest, so you have to be “original.” I’ve won the “Most Original” award a fair number of times. I was even named “Most Original” at a basketball awards banquet. What does that even mean? How can anybody be “Most Original” when she’s playing basketball?

Recognizing the “Most Original” award for the pity-prize that it was, I grew increasingly hostile toward the very word “original.” If you win this cursed award, everyone around you offers feigned sympathy or, even worse, insincere congratulations. Phrases like “oh, bummer” or well-intentioned but half-hearted “well, good for you” circle the recipient, creating a cyclone of regret from which the “winner” will never recover.

Okay, maybe I’m overreacting – but I cannot for the life of me understand that award. “Most Original” always let me down, and as a result, I hated to be original in any context. In my hometown of New Haven, Connecticut, where normality was…well, the norm, I tried to be a typical student – absolutely, perfectly normal. I blended into crowds, the definition of typical. I became a person who refused to surprise people. Just another brick in the wall.

Dull.

And then I moved to Berkeley for six months. It’s an odd, vibrant place with odd, vibrant people. Originality is celebrated there – not in the half-hearted “good for you” way, but in the full-throated “GOOD FOR YOU!” way. One of the first of my fellow students to befriend me wore corset tops and tutus and carried a parasol with which she punctuated her every utterance. Her best friend was a boy with purple hair who once wore a shirt with built in LED lights for Christmas. They were the most popular people in school, in direct contrast to all that was socially acceptable in New Haven. Our peers recognized them as being unique, but instead of ostracizing them or pitying them, the students in Berkeley celebrated them.

In Berkeley, I learned the value of originality: Those who celebrate their individuality are not only unique but strong. It takes great strength to defy the definitions of others, and because of that strength, those who create their own paths discover a different world than those who travel the same worn road.

I returned to New Haven a changed person. My appearance was certainly different – red streaks in my hair and a newfound fondness for tutus certainly made me stand out. But the change went deeper than that: I had embraced the idea of being myself, no matter what others thought was cool or “normal.” Spending time in a place where “Most Original” was the highest compliment allowed me to explore myself without fear of being different or lesser, and I liked what I had found.

I’m still skeptical about the “Most Original” award. In the context of an award ceremony, it’s still just a meaningless consolation prize. But I don’t think of being “Most original” as an insult anymore – I wear it as a badge of honor, proof that I am myself and no one else.

A friend recently joked, “If there were a ‘Quirkiest’ award in the yearbook, you’d definitely win.” We were standing outside of a classroom, and I was wearing a pair of gold, glittery shorts that definitely caught the eye. “Quirkiest?” I said. “How about ‘Most Original.’”

The sweet smell of cinnamon resonated through the house. A wave of heat washed over my face as I opened the oven door to reveal my first batch of snickerdoodles. Small domes of sugary cookies shyly peeked from the edge of the door. I smiled as I thought about the joy these cookies would bring to my friends. They like to compare me to the witch in Hansel and Gretel, joking that I fatten children up and then forget to eat them. I don’t particularly love being in the same company as an evil witch, but any rancor I might feel at this comparison is overwhelmed by my enjoyment of their anticipation of my baked goods.

There is something about the warmth of a kitchen filled with the buttery smell of pastry that evokes a feeling of utter relaxation. I find joy in sharing this warm and homey experience by showering the people around me with sweets. The smile that ticks up the corners of someone’s mouth as they bite into my food gives me a sense of pride and accomplishment.

For as long as I can remember, baking has been an integral part of my life. Thanks to busy parents and hungry siblings, I was encouraged to cook from a relatively young age. Time spent in the kitchen naturally piqued my interest in baking, and that glimmer of interest blossomed into a heart-warming hobby that rejuvenates my stressful days, improves upon even the happiest moments, and brings joy to the people around me.

They say that the way to a man’s heart is through his stomach. It has been my experience that the way to ANYONE’S heart is through the stomach. To me, food is not simply about sustenance. The time that I spend in my kitchen, the effort and care that I pour into my confectionary creations, is a labor of love that brings me just as much satisfaction as it does my hungry friends and family.

With constant development of technology nowadays, it becomes more complex to draw a line between legitimate information delivery and defamation. A question brought to the table is that whether a search engine assumes full liability for any damages triggered by defamatory publication on its platform or whether a plea of innocent dissemination is applicable. In defamation law, a plaintiff can take a party to the court arguing that he has endured three of the following things: the words or pictures “were capable of defamatory meaning, … identify him as the person defamed, … heard or seen by a third person” (Thenewsmanual.net n.d.). To keep it simple, an examination of the defamation case between Dr. Janice Duffy and Google will provide a practical application on what current Australian law system is practicing.

In 2011, a former SA health department researcher had filed a civil lawsuit against Google for defamation by a number of articles composed on a site named ‘Ripoff Report’. The content is alleged to hold slanderous imputations about Dr. Janice Duffy such as claims about her being a stalker and conducting continual harassment of clairvoyants. The plaintiff, in July 2009, realized that searches for her name on Google’s search engine generated the showcase of passages from the Ripoff Report and hyperlinks to other sites repeating that writing. Dr. Duffy asked Google to remove the material because of its potential defamation for her, and yet, the firm declined. After tedious years of costly trials, the Court had ruled in favor of Dr. Duffy and ordered the giant internet search engine to pay the plaintiff an award of $100,000 for general damages with the addition of $15,000 interest.

The plaintiff claimed three aspects which had driven her lawsuit against Google over defamation. The first viewpoint is under various insertion of Dr. Duffy’s names, Google was responsible for publication of search results that include extracts from and hyperlinks to 16 websites whose passages constitute libel about her. An example of paragraphs, cited by Cryptome.org, displayed if a user searches for “Dr. Janice Duffy” is “Dr. Janice Duffy is truly an embarrassment to her profession as a Senior Researcher in Adelaide Australia”, “… Psychics must be aware of a psychic stalker named Janice Duffy”, and so forth. It is reported by Marcus (2015) about Dr. Duffy’s concern that any potential employer would find her information through Google search engine and be exposed to those articles, which resulted in her financial and mental suffering. Secondly, Dr. Duffy pointed out that scans for her name on Google brought about the substitute term “Janice Duffy psychic stalker” offered by Google’s “autocomplete utility from June 2011 onwards and its related search utility from June 2012 onwards” (Cryptome.org n.d.), from which defamation could emerge. Moreover, on account of the production of excerpts and hyperlinks to Ripoff Report materials, Google was by all means the second publisher of such traducing content.

One of the most famous cases where Google was also considered second publisher of defamatory content would be Trkulja litigation against Google in 2012. He has successfully sued Google for defamatory search results of his name which falsely associate him with the Melbourne underworld criminal. On the Inforrm’s Blog (2017), it is written that the Victorian Supreme Court had awarded Trkulja $200,000 for damages in their final decision. The question was raised, in the same manner as Dr. Duffy’s lawsuit, whether Google is considered the publisher of its search results. With respect to web matter, Trkulja found the search results and autocomplete predictions that display a thumbnail picture of the plaintiff slanderous of him. On 3rd December 2012, Trkulja notified Google and sought for its authority to take the material down. It was argued that once the defendant had been given notice and had the power to withdraw the material, yet refused to do so, it unavoidably turned into a primary publisher of the complained matter. This defense was accepted by the Court and had brought Trkulja a famous victory against the technology behemoth.

According to Cryptome.org, Google repudiated allegations of any disparaging publications connected to its website and contended with “defenses of innocent dissemination, qualified privilege, justification and contextual truth”. Speaking of qualified privilege, the firm asserted that there is a public interest in acquiring data pertinent to the pursuit term, and thus Google shared a corresponding interest in presenting that information. In terms of justification plea, Google referred to Dr. Duffy’s exchange with Kasama administrators and posts on the site to prove the truthfulness of imputations claimed by the senior researcher. By which, it is bound to imputations of “stalking, harassment, government mail misuse, injury infliction, and reputation tarnishing … phoney name for deception; disseminated lies; … inaccurate and damaging reports about psychics; … manners requiring complaints against her to protect consumers” (Cryptome.org, n.d.). Justice Malcom Blue in the final verdict has rejected defense of innocent dissemination for the fact that defamatory materials were a result of a programmed search engine intended by Google. The defendant therefore had become a second publisher of the text when it was alerted by Dr. Duffy about the slanderous text in question. That Google rejected the request of content removal renders it liable for defamatory publications.

The implication of Dr. Janice Duffy v Google case has set a new bar for any search engine out there to carefully practice what an ordinary fair consumer would comprehend from its hyperlinks. In case of defamation caused by programmed search results, the publication is accused of disparaging imputations regarding an individual when his reputation is at risk of being tarnished; there is prospective damage to the person’s profession or business; and he is expected to be disregarded, ostracized, mocked, and loathed by others (Thenewsmanual.net n.d.). Therefore, as someone who has authority over content display, search engine firms should be mindful of the potential consequences of published materials on their platforms. Once notified of defamatory matter by users, a company will be counted as primary publisher of such content given that it decides to do nothing with the request. Same golden rule is also applied to the autocompletion coded by companies. As long as plaintiff can prove that the term offered by search engine is substantial in leading to his defamation, the award charged for firm in lawsuit would be costly depending on the scale of information dissemination. After two colossal cases of Google versus users, it is time to rethink about the role of search engine and its effect on today’s consumers. Everything might not appear to be as innocent as pure information delivery in the old time.

Google search is a great tool for searching information that we need for work. It is so easy just to Google something knowing you will have it at the palm of your hand in no time at all or better yet not having to spend hours looking in books for a bit of information. But searching Google for every answer may seem awesome there are some negative impacts it can bring to our own intelligence as well.

There are many benefits for using search engine. For example, it can help us save time, access free information, it can be more comprehensive, allows us to use a more advanced search, and it keeps the relevance of what is being searched. So, these search engines help us a lot in terms of accessing information at the time that we need something. But just because it has good benefits in our search for information does not mean we are being affected negatively.

Philip (2016) ‘Cognitive Offloading: How the Internet Is Changing the Human Brain’ informs about how access to information has become simpler to find and that it’s changing our ways of thinking. Finding information before the Internet was a huge struggle back then and the amount of effort that was needed to find it was hard. But know that the Internet allows us to search any information we want it has become easier than ever. Philip mentions a study that he included in his article about a study made by the University of California, Santa Cruz and the University of Illinois, Urbana Champaign. These studies were conducted by Benjamin Storm who was leading this study. The investigation consisted in how likely the participants would reach for their electronic devices when given a question to answer. So, participants were divided into two groups in which they set one group to use Google while the second group was not. Now this is where things get interesting; after the first series of questions were answered they allowed both groups to use Google. When the second series of questions were given those who use Google were the last to answer the question because they were more likely to rely on the search engine. While the group that did not use Google were faster in answering the questions that is because they were relying on their memory rather than using the search engine. As a result, Benjamin Storm came to this conclusion: “As more information becomes available via smart phones and other devices, we become progressively more reliant on it in our daily lives”. In other words, Benjamin is telling us that as information becomes easier to access, we start relying daily on the search engines such as Google.

Researchers Evan F Risko and Sam Gilbert refer to this as ‘cognitive offloading’, which means the use of physical action to alter the information processing requirements of a task so as to reduce cognitive demand. According to these two researchers they state that this has been going on for years. Evan and Sam found in their study that people rely on technology when it is superior to their own abilities. According to researchers these devices are needed because our memory has their limits as well.

Stéphanie Thomson (2016) in her article ‘Scientists Say Google Is Changing Our Brains’ demonstrate how Google searches have grown in past few years. In 2007 Google searches were 1.20 in average and for 2013 it has increased to 5.92 in less than five years. She says that thanks to the Internet specifically that people no longer need to rely on their memory for random information or small details. She also mentions, “But with all the knowledge we could ever need at our fingertips, are we outsourcing our memory to the Internet?”, and supports this claim with the exact same study as Philip mentioned in his article about the research Universities of California and Illinois did. This trend of using the Internet researchers is referring to it as ‘cognitive offloading’. She mentions Benjamin Storm stating, “Whereas before we might have tried to recall something on our own, now we don’t bother”. In which we agree with him as well because people now a days can remember things perfectly but we have become too dependent on the Google search engine that we rather use it than remember it our self.

In a Ted Talk mention refers to Michael Merzenich, a professor from the University of California in which he explains the details of how the brain is prepared for change. Stéphanie claims: “But is it changing for the better? At this point, we don’t know”. An opinion from people seems to be whether this affects us in a good or bad way. Nicholas Carr, author of ‘What the Internet Is Doing to Our Brains’ is not quite pleased with the Internet. Nicholas believes that relying on the Internet over our own memory is affecting us greatly and that it is something necessary for our knowledge and wisdom. Also, other researchers in that field came to the same conclusion as Nicholas.

But other people feel more optimistic about these changes. Clive Thompson points out that this has been happening for many years now even before technology and states: “Humanity has always relied on coping devices to handle the details for us. We’ve long stored knowledge in books and on paper and post-it notes”. Only that nowadays it has been change to technology that help us in those areas. Clive truly believes that the Internet will help grow the intelligence abilities in the human mind. And we believe that it can help us improve; we are not saying it’s good because it still has some negative impact in our brain but if used the right way it can help us grow in a positive way.

Zach Wener-Fligner (2015) in his article ‘Study: Googling Gives You an Inflated Sense of Your Own Intelligence’ says that thanks to the Internet gathering information through search engines such as Google has made things easier to access. The researchers at Yale conducted an experiment in which participants had to answer a few questions in which each one uses a search engine or a given text so that after the experiment they would rate themselves. Outstandingly the one who use search engines thought highly of themselves and superior. As a result, people will think that they know everything thanks to the Internet. The reason why they think that is probably because they can access information with so little effort, they believe they already knew it. On the other hand, searching by book is more effort. Matthew Fisher confirms that those who don’t know the answer it quite clear that they really don’t know. He states: “With the Internet, the lines become blurry between what you know and what you think you know”.

“Education is the most powerful weapon that can change the world”, – quoted from Nelson Mandela. I definitely agree with the statement above, education is very important to me and to all children it’s not only about learning something new every day it’s the atmosphere; making friends, asking teachers questions and exploring what I want to do in the future, trying something new and loving it then taking it as a hobby and beyond. But what education is more beneficial, online education that using the Internet or traditional learning -from the classroom?

Online education, commonly known as e-learning, is where education takes place away from the classroom walls using electronic media typically on the Internet. Pupils take more ownership of their work during e-learning and require more independence. Traditional learning, where learning takes place in the classroom, is where the teacher and students are working together face-to-face. With traditional education students get more support with their learning as a group because teachers can more easily tell their strengths and weaknesses and the pupils are able to work in groups rather than having to work independently. Online education can be flexible and cheaper but some may argue traditional learning you get in a routine which is good practice for the future and you are able to access more resources. So, what is education is more efficient and the right education?

The definition of traditional learning varies greatly with geography and by historical period. So, the idea I have of traditional education is being in a classroom face-to-face with a teacher and 30 other children but traditional education really varies where you are in the world geographically and what time period you are in because now my education even at school has become more digitalized because the world has become more digitalized. The main point is that you are at school or the campus with a teacher teaching and supporting you as a group. There are many advantages of traditional learning, but it all depends what type of learner you are whether you prefer one to one support or group support or like having your own routine or like following a routine to everyone else. In face-to-face learning students have to be available at a certain place and time, this gets pupils in a good routine and maintains discipline which will be good practice for when you have a job in the future. Another advantage is the quality of learning. Teachers can focus on particular skills depending on your groups needs teachers will be able to pick up on strengths and weaknesses quicker and you will be able to work as a class on the topics you need more work on which is beneficial for learning. Group work is definitely another main points of traditional learning and the experience, you gain social skills and maintain interpersonal relationships; this is good for mental health. You talk and work with people face-to-face and gain confidence in talking in class discussions and taking part in projects. You attend activities like extra-curricular clubs and field trips which are little parts of education you can only do on the school site but are unforgettable experiences where you learn core skills like resilience, participation, teamwork and creativity these are skills you can’t learn on a screen. Overall, traditional learning is a rewarding and constructive way of learning to a student because they are able to follow a routine which is good practice for the future ( and they will know exactly what to do) and the environment itself you can’t replace the friendships you make and the trips and participation you do in a classroom, a pupils and teachers mental health is much better in the classroom because of the support the teacher is able to give and the help the pupil is able to receive in addition the variety is greater of learning you do- for example sometimes group work, independent tasks, class discussions etc.

However education using the Internet can be also effective and valuable to a scholar. As computer scientist Daphne Koller said: “Online education can open doors that would otherwise remain closed”. This implies without remote learning those who are unable to access traditional learning have another opportunity of receiving education, which is a vital stage in life. Internet-based learning is a flexible, non-restrictive way of learning where the student has to take a step further and take charge of their education and commit. Moreover, education using the Internet is much more comfortable. It has been found that not all students can learn by sitting in a classroom for several hours. In turn, online learning allows participants to learn on their own terms, on any device they choose. In addition, online training has virtually no time limits: training can even take place during lunch, even at the back of the bus when participants travel to and from work. This type of flexibility is not possible with traditional physics classes. For the younger generation, it was noted that the duration of attention span for each student is different. For students who are easily distracted, short interactive modules are a possible learning tool that can be repeated multiple times. Another part of the current education system is the grading system. The current paper marking system is known to be incredibly effective. However, when students have to complete paperwork for teacher processing, they end up piling up because feedback has to be done manually. When learning with the help of the Internet, everything is completely different. In addition to taking printing out of the equation entirely, reviews are tagged digitally and sent back in less than a few seconds of online time. What used to take hours can now be done in minutes. Social learning is one of the important features of online learning. There are many ways to interact in this setting. Many features are available, such as chat and rating, and this increases user engagement as it is easy to do. Digital formats such as videos and screencasts make some lessons more fun and less time consuming.

In conclusion, online education can be flexible and cheap, but some may argue that the traditional education you get as a routine is good practice for the future and you can access more resources. So, what kind of education is more effective and correct? There is no correct answer to this question. It will be different for everyone. For some, traditional learning is the ideal option, for others it is more comfortable to learn using the Internet. However, due to the active development of technology, the traditional education system will undoubtedly no longer be the same. Technology will contribute to its transformation in one way or another. The intelligent introduction of the Internet into the current education system can lead to a more sustainable and efficient workflow.

Reading is referred to as a number of interactive processes between the reader and the text, in which readers use their knowledge to build, create and to construct meaning. Reading is one of the important aspects that need to be mastered by students because reading is the foundation for learning subjects across all sciences (Rintaningrum, 2009b, 2015b). The ability to read is very important for finding a job or going to college. Reading ability plays an important role in improving an individual’s life, ability in school, and is important to support the development of a country. Reading can be classified into three main areas namely the recreational, survey and study-type reading respectively. With recreational reading one is reading a story purely for pleasure, enjoyment and the tendency is to be more relaxed with an even speed. Survey reading involves covering a large amount of text in order to have a general idea of its contents. Finally, with the study -type of reading, it most of the time allows the reader to pay close attention to what he or she is reading because the reader in this type of reading will pose a series of mental questions to himself even as he reads. Fast forward in the subsequent paragraph I will be identifying briefly the relevance of reading to developing countries.

To begin with, my first point is in relation to dissemination of information in the country. In a developing country like Ghana print media like newspapers, articles, journal among others always release news that update the citizens on current affairs and happenings in the country and outside the county. This news gives detailed information about politics and governance, sports, entertainment, business and finance among other sectors. So, when the population indulges in reading, they are well informed and well abreast about recent happenings both at the national, local and international levels respectively hence, this helps them to make meaningful contributions to issues regarding national interest as a form of adding to the standards of democracy where the opinion of the normal citizen is appreciated at the national level to aide development in a country.

Another reason that makes reading relevant to developing countries is that reading to helps to upgrade and increase the level intellectuality of the country .As a developing country when reading is inculcated into the masses or citizenry from children to adults it helps them gain more knowledge and as they gain more knowledge they are able to gain analytical skills which in turn will aide them to solve basic problems that may arise in their society and the country at large hence influencing development of the society both at the local and national level positively.

Finally, the importance of reading to a developing country like Ghana is that it enhances the rate of literacy in the country. The high rate of illiteracy has caused high level of ignorance in the citizenry when it comes to industrialization and happenings of technological know-how in the country. If reading is inculcated in the citizenry, they become knowledgeable in industrialization which promotes production and also reduces the rate of illiteracy within the population hence increasing the rate of literacy in the country.

To conclude, the importance of reading in a developing country like Ghana where the educational sector is still undergoing development process and restructuring at the basic level, the more frequently students are encouraged to read by the ministry of education, the more language knowledge they acquire. Knowledge of language includes vocabulary, grammar and structure. Students are more likely to have more opportunities to acquire different patterns of grammar and structure when they are trained to like reading. Different types of books serve different patterns of grammar and structure. Students’ vocabulary improves quickly when students like reading. Every book they read provides different vocabularies and this will enrich their vocabulary quickly. Reading will increase their vocabulary and help them find out new things.

Education should not be ignored because it is essential for growth, whether it is the development of a single person or the development of an entire nation. Peru suffers from a shortage of economic diversity, an underproductive population, and significant economic disparity, both of which are exacerbated by a woefully inadequate educational system. Public education in Peru is substandard, according to an article published by the University of Maryland School of Public Policy, because the government does not properly invest in it. If more money was available, investments would result in increased human resources, increased labor production, and increased economic diversity and development. However, aid from the government is not the only aspect of the solution, according to an article published by the Borgen Project, an organization dedicated to combating global poverty. While funding is important, how it is spent is vital to producing successful outcomes.

The article gives an excellent example: in 2012, the Peruvian government spent $225 million on 850,000 laptop computers, which were distributed to schools all over the world. Despite the money, the laptop initiative has no impact on students’ math or reading comprehension grades. The school sector suffers from a lack of infrastructure. Schools are unable to have an environment that is conducive to learning due to insufficient facilities. It is reasonable to believe that capital improvements would also assist in the development of the educational system. Furthermore, the University of Maryland post points out that a poor education system would not provide workers with the expertise they need to succeed. As a result, Peru’s large uneducated and deprived population is constrained in its job opportunities. Peru’s undiversified population, starving for better pay for their labor, is drawn to the notorious and lucrative informal sector of the world.

Since informalities are not taxable, future budget revenue that might have otherwise been used to finance programs aimed at improving the education sector and infrastructure is unavailable. On the other hand, Peru’s economic uniformity, along with the massive profits made by the informal sector, has resulted in significant income disparities between regions. Peru is at the bottom of the 65 countries tested on reading comprehension and physics, and second to last in mathematics, according to the Borgen Project and a ranking published by the Program of International Student Assessment in 2009. Just 43% of rural women between the ages of 20 and 24 had completed secondary school, according to another report by Peruvian in Me, which deals with poverty and schooling in Peru as well as gender equality. Both estimates point to Peru’s collapsing educational infrastructure, which, as previously reported, has foreseeable implications. Another factor contributing to the education system’s collapse is a layer of infrastructure issues, especially in rural areas, where about 6.7 million people live as of 2015. Citizens in rural areas face a total lack of transportation; in some situations, children must travel an hour to get to kindergarten, and safety is a problem for students coming home late at night following a long day at school. Nonetheless, there is reason to think that a long-term solution to Peru’s key economic challenge is feasible. According to the above School of Public Policy, reducing informalities is critical to promoting overall economic development. However, in order to do so, the standard of education and access to it must also increase. There ought to be more worker preparation to allow them to engage in the formal economy, which will be a better deal for them than casual endeavors. Infrastructure and education investments are important in Peru. In terms of school financing, it is critical to carefully invest money into innovative initiatives that promote educational success and ensuring that students are able to make the best of the opportunities available to them.

We need a team of teachers with a broad understanding of environmental science to implement sustainable development education in colleges and universities. Most university professors already have a basic understanding of sustainable development education, but they lack a systemic and macro information framework. As a result, colleges and universities should implement a set of policies to enable young and middle-aged teachers to pursue master’s or doctoral degrees in the direction of their specialty’s sustainable growth, as well as to increase the teaching and learning levels of young teachers’ sustainable development. Colleges and universities should allow young and middle-aged teachers to apply for projects, visit researchers, and other aspects of science study to further their own theoretical cultivation and standard. Via their efforts, teachers increase their knowledge of environmental growth and professional excellence.

Sound programs should be in place to ensure environmental sustainability and sustainable growth curriculum in colleges and universities. Colleges and universities should focus on developing technical service platforms and information platforms, as well as improving the development of hardware facilities for environmental conservation teaching and science. Colleges and universities should develop and strengthen a business opportunity system for the transformation of environmental science findings, so that cutting-edge environmental management technologies can be quickly transformed on campus. Colleges and universities should devise relevant schemes to award teachers and students who have attained excellent results.

Environmental education aimed solely at schoolchildren would fail because schoolchildren are not yet able to make several choices on how to protect current environmental resources. As a result, improving sustainable development education for college students is especially relevant. In several nations, sustainable development education has emerged as a major educational theme and a new driving force for educational innovation. China has increasingly developed a multi-form, multi-level, and multi-channel environmental education structure, resulting in environmental education with distinct Chinese characteristics. With the escalation of the environmental and energy crises, carrying out ecological environmental conservation and sustainable environmental growth has become an unavoidable pattern. This will necessitate a vast number of exceptional individuals devoting their skills to the tide of environmental sustainability.

It is not only the responsibility of higher education to incorporate environmental and sustainable development education in colleges, but it is also the responsibility of any college student. Colleges and universities must address current issues in environmental and sustainable development education, constantly pursue and innovate, nurture students’ environmental conservation principles and understanding, amass a wealth of technical skills, and contribute to environmental protection and sustainable development.

Nowadays, with every passing day the Internet has become more essential for daily life activities. To get instant information or for any transaction’s the Internet became very useful and necessary. For students, the Internet has become more important because with the help of the Internet they will get their tasks done. However, a vital factor in every habit comes with some good and bad effects for the people who are habituated to it. Students are using the Internet so much therefore it affects their personal and social life.

Nowadays, students cannot focus on their studies because they are using the Internet all the time from morning to night for bed. Therefore, they cannot even pay attention to their family, it will affect their social relationships, they are started to ignoring their friend and loved ones and more importantly, it will affect them physically as well. It shows us that the excessive use of the Internet affects them mentally therefore they cannot concentrate or focus on their studies. In this case, if parents did not take any action against their usage of the Internet, then it would affect their career in further future.

Students are surfing various sites and contents on the Internet in their daily life. Some of the bad sites also included porno sites, students are watched many videos on the porno websites it will affect them drastically as one can form an opinion about a woman or a girl to make love with a girl or the worse to rape them and it causes crimes. Students consider using many social media to interact with friends and family and bad guys looking for younger students in the social sites to abuse them or to fulfill their bad intentions. In many articles and newspapers, it has been stated that many of the rapes on a girl happened because of the Internet and social sites. For these reasons, government should take strict actions to avoid these horrible crimes and restrict the usage of the Internet for students.

Excessive use of the Internet causes physical harm to students. In this present time, the hobby of playing Internet games shows us that students feel lazy and weaker their eyesight. As an example, excessive playing of video games leads them to back pain and pain in their neck.

There are various search engines premises are available to get any kind of information about any topic. In this pandemic schools and colleges took exams of the students as an online test and it shows us that students cheat in their exam by searching the information on the Internet or another way discusses the topic with their friends on social media follows that answered accordingly.

Access to the Internet should be limited for the students to ensure better concentration towards their studies and focus on learning. It will restrict them to use bad sites and bad people cannot be abused and track on social networks. Many outdoor events will improve their social relationships and interactive nature with people.

Hospitality is a business activity which provides various services to guests in hotels, bars, restaurants as a source of recreation purpose and meeting each and every needs and demands whenever asked (Merriam-webster.com, 2019). Hospitality industry basically puts emphasis on the satisfaction of the customers and providing the best experiences available. This industry is unique in its nature and provides facilities for its customers arriving for vacation or occasional purposes. The different areas of hospitality industry include different levels of accommodation for all income level of customers, quality food and beverage items, tourism facilities for the customers and transport facilities (Study.com, 2019).

The case study gives relevant information about the staff turnover which resulted in lack of consistency among the employees of the organization and also caused failure to maintain proper values. A negative work culture has been detected among the staff with increased sick leave and attendance that is comparatively poor. The reason is logical because sometimes the employees have to work more than the agreed period and this creates dissatisfaction as well as sickness due to hard work. Female employees who are working for long period also have duties towards family have to maintain number of part time jobs. So being late due to having to continue too many jobs causes attendance issues. London is expensive in terms of living and other expenses which compels low-income people to do multiple jobs. Team spirit is undermined due to various reasons. Management and leadership are ineffective in maintaining the work balance. The monitoring and control procedures conducted by the previous heads of department and staff with supervisory staff were unproductive. Poor guest satisfaction occurred when the front-of-house staff were unable to conduct their responsibilities effectively.

Peter Farnsworth should consider Taylor’s 5 principles which will be an advantage for both the organization as well as the employees: 1) using scientific methods to develop new techniques to make the work easier and efficient; 2) better working conditions; 3) training and mutual cooperation; 4) providing financial incentives; 5) Assigning best suited employees according to skills and expertise.

The interpersonal role defined by Mintzberg (1973) which includes figurehead, leader, liaison would be the perfect if utilized in this situation (business.com, 2019). Manager should take the responsibility of dividing the work between teams and take steps for the development of the employees. John Adair’s Action centered leadership provides ways of achieving task in groups and managing individuals (Models and Adair, 2019). According to Situational Approach leaders match their style with competence and commitment of the employees so as to get best result. This enables to maintain communication with every level of employees. Implementation of participative style will ensure the subordinates acceptance of decisions by proper motivational techniques to improve productivity and achieve goals (Referenceforbusiness.com, 2019). Directive leadership is required when the team members are less skilled (ThoughtfulLeader.com, 2019). Proper directions will help the employees to complete tasks in proper way. By choosing proper management style, managers can increase trust level with the employees (The Balance Careers, 2019). In some cases, autocratic decision may be required. Democratic decisions should be taken to implement self-motivation and evolve sense of duties among the employees. Providing incentives and promotion will motivate them to achieve goals.

My desire to contribute to efforts aimed at addressing health inequalities especially in rural areas initiated from awareness of malnutrition and poor health condition of my students which affected their participation in class and academic performances. Most of the students drop out of school as result. This scholarship offers me an opportunity to study MSc Nutrition and public health Management. This platform will equip me with the knowledge and skill required to improve population health of school children and productivity outcomes in schools.

A Combination of the application of my first degree Knowledge in biology education and prospectus MSC in Nutrition and Public health knowledge and practical skills are critical to addressing health system problems and guiding policies and practices that contribute greatly to the achievement of the sustainable development goal 3 (Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all ages). In addition to the achievement of the sustainable development goal 4 ( to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all).

In all sense of humility, I am confident that I will make a good selection by the panel due to my track records of excellence in academics and community development. I have a Second class upper divison (3.96) in Biology education from the Enugu State University of Science and Technology. I obtained the dean of faculty prize for the most disciplined student of the 2016/2017 session.

I have volunteered and worked in community development as a peer educator, youth advocate, researcher, project manager and active member of TRCN (Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria) and Red Cross Association. I have led and worked in teams focusing on advocacy, demand generation, services uptake push, and programme implementation efforts aimed at addressing issues around sexual and reproductive health, routine immunisation, youth participation, gender equality, and neglected tropical diseases. Currently, I work as a teacher in one of the rural schools in my state and lead a community Development service group responsible for sensitisation on prevention and treatment of diseases like Malaria, Jaundice, polio, meningitis and typhoid. I believe that being selected by the panel would offer me a platform to share my community engagement experiences with colleagues and possibly, my tutors with the aim of contributing to knowledge. I am positive that my strong passion for public health research, innovation, and opportunities to lead efforts to solve systemic and population-based public health problems stands me out.

At the end I would like to point out that I am determined to make the most out of this scholarship.

After completing my MPH Degree and within time my PhD, I want to work for a health organization such as the WHO, helping to bring to minimal the rate of malnutrition, disease and infant death in my country Nigeria.

Selection by the panel despite being a direct investment on my personal and professional development will have far-reaching outcomes and impacts on my country’s health system especially for the most vulnerable segment of the population.

Growing up in a developing country (Nigeria), a chance at education was one of the greatest privileges one could have. As a child, when my father drove me to school, I would see children hawking on the streets. This hurt me badly and led me to organize mini lessons for my age mates in my neighborhood. I taught with complete enthusiasm and joy seeing my students were happy to learn. At that young age, I was drawn to become a teacher in order to make more impact on a wider population. I found myself greatly fascinated by the vast knowledge in the universe waiting to be acquired. My interest in learning and teaching grew over the years in which I excelled at.

During my undergraduate studies, I excelled in both academics and extracurricular activities. I was the student leader in my faculty and graduated with second-class upper.

Afterward, I did my teaching practice and was the best in my department.

I was posted to Fr Tansi secondary school, Akpu Orumba South LGA Anambra, Nigeria for the mandatory one year service. I spearheaded several sensitization programmes for the pupils on career choice and peer pressure influence. I make use of the problem solving method of teaching learnt as an undergraduate. Here, students are encouraged to solve the pertinent problem with what they have learnt instead of mere repetition aimed at passing exams. For instance, I asked my students to help control land and noise pollution in the school environment. This prepared them to be leaders in future.

After my youth service, I got job with Enugu State Government as a teacher. I emerged at the top twenty and was readily posted to Girls Secondary School Akegbe-ugwu. Since then, I have been teaching with enthusiasm like when I was a child. A child when properly motivated and trained will be an asset to the society. I am honored to be part of this noble profession.

I am optimistic that obtaining this scholarship and admission to study Msc management and leadership is the next step in achieving my goal of becoming a world class educationist, with a major eye for the furtherance of educational development of Africa’s teaching and learning strategies. It would equip me with the necessary leadership and managerial skills needed. I will also understand education policies to effectively organize the material and human resources of an educational institution. I can then contribute immensely to the restoring as well as well as maintaining good and quality education in Nigeria and Africa at large.

During my study I intend to carry out a study plan on a new trade and entrepreneurship curriculum to provide students in my home country with practical opportunities to acquire entrepreneurial competencies by taking part in in-school small-scale business ventures, to prepare them better for the world of work. The study will be focused on translating theory into practice forms to train “technological leaders who are both creative and entrepreneurial. In order for Nigeria to meet the (Sustainable Development Goals) SDGs and specifically goal 4 targets by 2030 with its current education system.

As a child, I followed my father to his lab on days that weren’t school days. I was fascinated with the environment and the work he did. I would watch with enthusiasm as he carried out his experiments which led to the production of effective drugs. One of which stopped a stomach upset I had at the time. In the years to come, I found myself greatly fascinated by the vast knowledge in the universe waiting to be explored and the possibility of harnessing such knowledge to solve problems. During my undergraduate studies, I excelled in both academics and extracurricular activities. I emerged as the best student in my department (Biology Education) in introductory biotechnology course. I carried out a research seminar on gene technology and it’s application in medicine, pharmacology, food industries, agriculture. For instance in agriculture, Producers may be able to grow crops under adverse conditions, such as drought. Some genetically engineered plant foods require significantly fewer chemical applications during growth and therefore have less environmental impact. Production of bovine somatotropin (BST), a hormone increasing milk production in dairy cows, by GM bacteria. Not only did I score an A, I was greatly motivated to pursue an MSc in biotechnology. I was the student leader in my faculty and graduated with second-class upper.

I was posted to Fr Tansi secondary school, Akpu Orumba South LGA Anambra, Nigeria for the mandatory one year service. I spearheaded several sensitization programmes for the pupils on career choice and peer pressure influence. I also adopted the problem solving method of teaching, learnt as an undergraduate. Here, students are encouraged to solve pertinent problem with what they have learnt instead of mere repetition aimed at passing exams. For instance, I asked my students to help control land and noise pollution in the school environment. With their collective effort, the school was free from noise and land pollution in less than a month. This prepared them to be leaders in the future. After my youth service, I got job with Enugu State Government as a teacher. I emerged at the top twenty and was readily posted to Girls Secondary School Akegbe-ugwu. Since then, I have been teaching with enthusiasm like when I was a child. A child when properly motivated and trained will be an asset to the society. I am honored to be part of this noble profession.

The quest for Nigeria achieve sustainable economic development can only be achieved through combination of oil and gas and other sectors such as agriculture, education and biotechnology. This is because a house standing on one pillar will surely collapse if the pillar collapses. However, if there are many pillars, at the collapse of one, the others will sustain the house while the collapsed pillar is restored. The current shock being suffered by the Nigerian economy as a result of oil mono economy and oil price fluctuation is an indication that the time to explore other sectors of the economy is now. Thus, In the sector of biotechnology which involves the use of biology to solve problems and make useful products. Nigeria can excel as a result of abundance of biological resources in the nation. There is the possibility that biomass, and other renewable biological fuels could be used to at least partially replace the fossil fuels that are beginning to run out, and have been damaging the environment for a long time.

In the petroleum sector there is need for introduction of biotechnology, such as Microbial Enhanced Oil Recovery (MEOR) which is the usage of microorganisms to facilitate and increase oil production from an oil reservoir. MEOR is a more environmental friendly method can be introduced. This and more Nigeria can adopt.

Furthermore, I find it amazing how spider silk is stronger than steel cable, weight for weight, and that in countries like China, bamboo is strong enough to be used for scaffolding, whereas the western world make use of steel.

In the petroleum sector there is need for introduction of biotechnology, such as Microbial Enhanced Oil Recovery (MEOR) which is the usage of microorganisms to facilitate and increase oil production from an oil reservoir. MEOR is a more environmental friendly method.

Can be introduced, This and more Nigeria can adopt. I believe in Nigeria lies enormous potentials in nature and in society,just about everyone and every thing has a place and function of endless possibilities.

I am optimistic that obtaining this scholarship and admission is the next step in achieving my goal of being an expert in biotechnology with an eye for technical, vocational training for economic development and sustainability beyond oil and gas. The UK is fourth in the world for expenditure on biotechnology research and has made excellent breakthroughs in biotechnology. My motivation to take the Masters’ in Biotechnology in a UK University is strengthened by its rich course modules relating to statistics, research, pedagogy strategies, education planning and evaluation, and education system strengthening. I am confident that on completion of the Masters in education programme, I will gain relevant knowledge, skills and experience to contribute significantly to national efforts aimed at facilitating job creation and unemployment rate reduction in Nigeria and Sub-Saharan Africa through research, policy development, and quality assurance.

As a child, I followed my father to his lab on days that weren’t school days. I was fascinated with the environment and the work he did. I would watch with enthusiasm as he carried out his experiments which led to the production of effective drugs. One of which stopped a stomach upset I had at the time. In the years to come, I found myself greatly fascinated by the vast knowledge in the universe waiting to be explored and the possibility of harnessing such knowledge to solve problems. During my undergraduate studies, I excelled in both academics and extracurricular activities. I emerged as the best student in my department (Biology Education) in introductory biotechnology course. I carried out a research seminar on gene technology and it’s application in medicine, pharmacology, food industries, agriculture. For instance in agriculture, Producers may be able to grow crops under adverse conditions, such as drought. Some genetically engineered plant foods require significantly fewer chemical applications during growth and therefore have less environmental impact. Production of bovine somatotropin (BST), a hormone increasing milk production in dairy cows, by GM bacteria. Not only did I score an A, I was greatly motivated to pursue an MSc in biotechnology. I was the student leader in my faculty and graduated with second-class upper.

I was posted to Fr Tansi secondary school, Akpu Orumba South LGA Anambra, Nigeria for the mandatory one year service. I spearheaded several sensitization programmes for the pupils on career choice and peer pressure influence. I also adopted the problem solving method of teaching, learnt as an undergraduate. Here, students are encouraged to solve pertinent problem with what they have learnt instead of mere repetition aimed at passing exams. For instance, I asked my students to help control land and noise pollution in the school environment. With their collective effort, the school was free from noise and land pollution in less than a month. This prepared them to be leaders in the future. After my youth service, I got job with Enugu State Government as a teacher. I emerged at the top twenty and was readily posted to Girls Secondary School Akegbe-ugwu. Since then, I have been teaching with enthusiasm like when I was a child. A child when properly motivated and trained will be an asset to the society. I am honored to be part of this noble profession.

The quest for Nigeria achieve sustainable economic development can only be achieved through combination of oil and gas and other sectors such as agriculture, education and biotechnology. This is because a house standing on one pillar will surely collapse if the pillar collapses. However, if there are many pillars, at the collapse of one, the others will sustain the house while the collapsed pillar is restored. The current shock being suffered by the Nigerian economy as a result of oil mono economy and oil price fluctuation is an indication that the time to explore other sectors of the economy is now. Thus, In the sector of biotechnology which involves the use of biology to solve problems and make useful products. Nigeria can excel as a result of abundance of biological resources in the nation. There is the possibility that biomass, and other renewable biological fuels could be used to at least partially replace the fossil fuels that are beginning to run out, and have been damaging the environment for a long time.

In the petroleum sector there is need for introduction of biotechnology, such as Microbial Enhanced Oil Recovery (MEOR) which is the usage of microorganisms to facilitate and increase oil production from an oil reservoir. MEOR is a more environmental friendly method can be introduced. This and more Nigeria can adopt.

Furthermore, I find it amazing how spider silk is stronger than steel cable, weight for weight, and that in countries like China, bamboo is strong enough to be used for scaffolding, whereas the western world make use of steel.

In the petroleum sector there is need for introduction of biotechnology, such as Microbial Enhanced Oil Recovery (MEOR) which is the usage of microorganisms to facilitate and increase oil production from an oil reservoir. MEOR is a more environmental friendly method.

Can be introduced, This and more Nigeria can adopt. I believe in Nigeria lies enormous potentials in nature and in society,just about everyone and every thing has a place and function of endless possibilities.

I am optimistic that obtaining this scholarship and admission is the next step in achieving my goal of being an expert in biotechnology with an eye for technical, vocational training for economic development and sustainability beyond oil and gas. The UK is fourth in the world for expenditure on biotechnology research and has made excellent breakthroughs in biotechnology. My motivation to take the Masters’ in Biotechnology in a UK University is strengthened by its rich course modules relating to statistics, research, pedagogy strategies, education planning and evaluation, and education system strengthening. I am confident that on completion of the Masters in education programme, I will gain relevant knowledge, skills and experience to contribute significantly to national efforts aimed at facilitating job creation and unemployment rate reduction in Nigeria and Sub-Saharan Africa through research, policy development, and quality assurance.

YTL Foundation is committed to providing opportunities to deserving students who show potential to be outstanding leaders and who embody our core values of hard work, honesty, moral responsibility, togetherness and vitality. I understand the Foundation’s vision is exceptional and gladly would like contribute my best to the society as I am always determined to do so. The core values that holds their vission is definitely the values each and everyone should possess. This scholarship personally attracted my attention because YTL Foundation gave an equal importance to our education alongside building our character toward making a better comunity. It would be a great honor to be part of this fantabulous idea of giving back by serving to the community, that brought us to a greater height. I would say that I would make all possible efforts to accomplish the aims of YTL Foundation.

I truly give importance to both education and character. I’m also a hard worker as I gave home tuitions for primary school students despite I myself being hectic as a student sitting for SPM in Year 2018 just to support my family, and I still managed to obtain 8 As and 3 Bs. Despite coming from a financially needy family, I always aspired to become someone that everyone would look up to. I strongly believe that this scholarship will become a platform for me to venture and explore new things at the same time molding me to become a better one in all possible aspects.Well I have alot of soft skills and hard skills. I believe I deserve to be selected for one of your program’s scholarships because I am a hard-working student and I will commit myself to effectively take advantage of the opportunity that the scholarships will provide me. Besides this, I constantly try to improve my community by doing voluntary work. I believe that a good education is the key to success, and I try to connect my passion for education with my desire of helping others. As a result, I joined a non-governmental community organization as a volunteer. I had been as a volunteer in Sri Murugan Centre, an educational centre that has branches nationwide. I was involved in helping with documentation, taking care the students, writting financial summary report, helping in activities and multiple program organised by the centre in one of the branches situated in Brickfields,Kuala Lumpur.I have also been a substitute teacher at some point when the teachers are unavailable especially for Mathematics and Science for UPSR students. At that very point, I learnt to become someone adaptive with surrounding and to work with experienced people that has different academical background.

After all, these experiences also moulded me up to be a good leader and also improved my communication skills.

Deep inside I know that I’m going to succeed, and help many other people on the way. This is just a matter of time.

I have great expectations for the future and this scholarship would help me to move forward with my dreams. I will be eagerly waiting for your positive response.

Apart from the tuition, you will have to find the budget for the board, room, transportation, textbooks, and personal expenses. For completing a bachelor’s degree, the total sum of all these expenses will be approximately $ 200000.

An Overview on Scholarship
When a student is facing financial issues and not able to pay the fee, the first idea that hits his/her mind is scholarship. A scholarship is an award of financial aid given to students in order to help them pursue further education in college, university, or academic institutions.

Here are a few points important to know about scholarships.

These are sponsored by big corporations, schools, religious groups, communities, and social and professional organizations, private sectors, organizations, and the federal government intended to help students who meet certain eligibility standards set by them.

These scholarships can range from small to big amounts and are awarded considering the merit in academics, athletic or cultural excellence.

Many private organizations that give scholarships send the money directly to the college financial support office so that the money can be utilized to spend for tuition, fees for the expenses directly billed by the college and not for books, board, room, and other supplies.

The advantage of these scholarships is that they need not be repaid.

If you can not keep up to the scholarship rules and conditions while accepting this award, you might have to repay the amount.

An Overview on Full Ride Scholarship

A full-ride scholarship is a financial award given to students in order to cover the entire cost of the college expense that includes the cost of textbooks, room, full tuition fee, school materials, and monthly stipend including living expenses and study abroad expenses.

Here are a few points you must know about the Full Ride Scholarship.

These Scholarships are generally awarded by the college themselves, a private source, or by the federal government for the most brilliant students.

Some colleges may provide additional benefits to the winners of the full-ride scholarship award.

Amongst the students registered in the college, around 1 to 3 percent get a Full Ride Scholarship that covers the full cost of their studies.

The specifications can change from scholarship to scholarship, but in reality, the full-ride covers more than just tuition.

A full-ride scholarship can be awarded by the federal government, the colleges themselves, or by a private source. But these scholarships have strict requirements and guidelines.

There are some universities offering the full-ride scholarship for international students by taking their SAT scores into account.

An Overview on the Full Tuition Scholarship
As the name itself indicates, Full tuition scholarships are the financial aid given to students in order to cover the tuition cost incurred at the college, not necessarily other fees like travel expenses, room, and board, various student fees, or other costs.

Some of the colleges in the US are Tuition-free colleges that means all the students being admitted to such colleges are not required to pay the tuition fee.

Here are a few you must know about the Full Tuition Scholarship.

The amount given, rules, and conditions vary from scholarship to scholarship. Some might cover other costs besides tuition, but that is the main focus.

Many colleges grant Full Tuition Scholarships as a means to draw skilled and talented students.

Basically, this scholarship is defined to the tuition announced but it may include books, laboratories, or some other student expenses also.

These are sponsored by the government, colleges, or private sources to intellectual students.

In some colleges, this scholarship is guaranteed automatically for the students who meet their requirements.

This scholarship is awarded to the students who achieve high academic standards like scoring good in the ACT or SAT or achieving the required GPA (Grade Point Average).

Difference between Full Ride & Full Tuition Scholarship
Costs Covered
Full ride scholarships generally cover all college costs including tuition, textbooks, meals, boards, room, and maybe they even give an allowance for personal expenses.

But in full-tuition scholarships, they cover only the cost of attendance, and generally, no extra fees rising in the study term will be included.

Academic Years Covers
A Full Ride Scholarship will be awarded for one year initially. From the second year onwards, every year, you will be renewed by default depending on your eligibility which is based on your performance. Finally, if you perform well in academics or maintain your score, it will last for all four years.

Full-tuition scholarships will cover the majority of your college costs for four years. These scholarship awards can cover tuition costs to all of your living expenses, depending on the courses defined by the provider.

Similarities between full-rides and full-tuition scholarships
Both full-rides and full-tuition scholarships are exceptionally hard to achieve. As they are mostly merit-based, students usually must have high GPAs, class ranks, test scores, or have incredible athletic abilities or leadership qualities that make them extremely desired by institutions.

Scholarship Criteria
At a minimum, please ensure you answer the following questions in your statement:

How are you experiencing personal or socioeconomic hardship and how that affects your ability to achieve your academic and professional goals?
How are you demonstrating your high academic achievement or potential (and commitment to your secondary studies)?
What are you motivated to achieve academically and professionally, including what you intend to study at university?
How do you intend to make the most from the Harding Miller Education Foundation scholarship
As an immigrant family we are struggling. My mum has been constantly working hard, in order to financially support three kids as a single mum. Even then, resources are limited. My single mum can’t afford to send me to tuition nor pay for internet. All four of us share a single laptop. I share some textbooks with my peers as well as spend hours at the library after school to study.

Getting into Nossal wasn’t a walk in the park, I had to burn midnight oil. Without any tutoring this was a challenge, especially when my peers were attending 3 tuitions on average, while I self-educated myself. Getting accepted into Nossal was just a milestone in my career. Another one of my achievements is being part of a SEAL program at my school for high achieving students. In this program, my studies are accelerated a year ahead therefore on all my reports and tests I get marked on a year nine standard. I have been participating in academic competitions like ICAS, Maths Olympiad, Australian Mathematics Competition since grade three. I love accepting challenges and proving my capability.

Asides from my achievements, I’m truly passionate in the medical field. My ultimate goal is to become a neurosurgeon to serve the community. I have a passion for Science and Maths, hence I want to study Chemistry,Biology in VCE along with Specialist Mathematics and Mathematic Methods. In order to get admission in a renowned university, I’m aspiring to get 100% for my VCE ATAR

The HMEF scholarship will offer me the resources I need to succeed. I intend to make the most out of this scholarship by using the resources provided to the fullest. In order excel, I need extra resources besides the course books instead of relying on the library. With the provided internet access and state-of-the-art technology, I can study at home. The career and subject selection advice will help me to know the best way to approach my career. Not to mention, the tutoring and coaching support will assist me on subjects I’m weaker in like English as it is my second language as well as to study difficult subjects in VCE.

Transitioning to a new school can be costly. Not only will this scholarship financially help me and maximize my potential, but also be a launching pad to motivate and propel my success. Instead of worrying about costs and expenses, I can focus on my studies. This scholarship will be an investment on myself, which I will give back to the community.

I appreciate your consideration.

In the future, I hope to pursue my dream of becoming a neurosurgeon. I intend to study at a renowned university, where I anticipate to become extremely involved with the student community. I am greatly influenced from my maternal uncle from Canada who is working as a neurosurgeon.

As Nelson Mandela once said, “Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world”. I absolutely agree with this. As a migrant coming from a third world country, I know health is priority. There is always a deficiency of doctors. With my education, I can help serve the community and improve the quality of life for countless families to come.

My main interests out of school are tennis, learning a language, cooking and running. I’ve always been passionate about tennis. At a certain stage, I refused to continue tennis training to alleviate some pressure for my mum. Fortunately, I was offered a tennis scholarship. Every Saturday, I attend language classes at VSL. I’m also very fond of cooking, our school held a Master chef program which I came second in. Another interest of mine is running. At my primary school I came first in cross country and fourteenth in district cross country. Besides this, I participate in cultural dance programs held by our community at different occasions. I also learn ABACUS and got distinguish but due to family circumstances I was not able to continue it.

My interests have given me the resilience, work ethic, and tenacity to develop as a person.

My family is an immigrant family from India. My mum is single, and she does not have any support. My mum work casually as a teacher. She has dispute with my dad and are ongoing cases in court. My dad is very mean to us. He does not allow us to travel overseas for holidays and we are on watchlist order. Facing family issues, my mum finds hard to concentrate on her career.

It is a tough time for my family. My mum has been on antidepressants for a long time. Being eldest it is also my responsibility to take care of my family.

I have several interests. Due to my family circumstances I am not able to pursue these. Like I was very keen to learn ABACUS. I attended the course for 6 months only. I passed the first level with distinction but due to financial hardship I couldn’t continue it. Still I would like to continue it. I can’t attend extra coaching classes as my peer do. This year I was unable to purchase my Japanese books. Even though I share the Japanese books with my friends and borrow resources from the library, I find myself falling behind in Japanese.

During studying for select entry school, my mum couldn’t afford tutoring. Fortunately for me, my peers were kind enough to lend me some of their resources.

At this stage in my professional career, I am contemplating plans to provide more balance to my career and develop cutting-edge skills and knowledge needed to take on more responsibilities in academia. Achieving a deeper understanding of the zinc-rich coating system, remain currently my passion.

I think I deserve the Singapore International Graduate Award (SINGA) because it will enable me to achieve my long-term career goal in Academia. By advancing my education in Physical science and engineering especially Material Science, I can work towards achieving these goals. I aim to make a tremendous difference in coating and corrosion science especially Singapore coating industries whereby, the interaction between zinc particle and white rust with coating matrix as well as zinc size, shape, thickness effect on zinc-rich coating system can be understood and presented. SINGA will undeniably be the difference-maker as it relates to afford me the Ph.D. education needed to achieve exactly that. Receiving the SINGA scholarship will empower me to work towards a coating world where I can develop a thinner zinc-rich coating with lower zinc content while giving durable corrosion protection of steel structures that will benefit Singapore coating industries.

I was inspired to apply for SINGA because the scheme supports research project topics like New Generation of Zinc-Rich Coating for corrosion protection of Steel Structures, Corrosion Mechanism of Metals and Alloys under tropical and accelerated exposure conditions, etc… that aligns with my research interest and of which I have already gained significant experience during my undergraduate and Master’s research projects at Swansea University. I maintained a twenty hours per week job at Noonan Services Group (UK) LTD in Swansea while I was pursuing my master’s program to support my maintenance expenses after the death of my father who was my sponsor. Despite the setback during my study and the fact that I was an international student, I graduate with a UK merit degree in Mechanical Engineering and won the prestigious Project Management Champion of the year award in the College of Engineering.

SINGA will typically lead me towards my Ph.D. research degree and my lifetime dream of enjoying a successful career as a world-leading researcher in academia will become a reality. After the successful completion of my Ph.D. program in Singapore, I see myself being employed as an academic researcher, performing and publishing research, evaluating and managing research, collaborating and networking with external companies/leading organizations.

I am appreciative to be considered by the appropriate SINGA committee, and if I am selected, I will use the award to pursue my Ph.D. education in Physical Science and Engineering especially Material Science. A Ph.D. education is an essential qualification needed to achieve my long-term career goal in academia. It will be a distinct honor to research alongside world-renowned researchers at the Singapore Institute of Manufacturing Technology (SIMTech). I will have the opportunity to demonstrate I possess key research skills needed to become a successful Ph.D. student and an outstanding researcher, thereby, making a meaningful contribution to my field of study.

My name is Rimsha Sohail. In this essay, I want to express my motivation to apply for the Spring Forward Scholarship. For as long as I can remember I’ve known what I wanted to do in my life. Since my early childhood art has been a passion of mine. I have always tried to develop my creativity but have heard my family and friends say: “You are not for this!”. No one has pursued art in our family. But the only dream that I have yearned to achieve is to have a career in interior architecture.

Becoming an interior architect is not a chosen profession – it is a calling that I am destined to follow. It came naturally to me. Interior architecture has always been my passion and the Academy of Art University can help me fulfill my dreams and reach my goals. I have the drive and passion to succeed in this area of study. The passion has further grown by watching several programs and researching topics that are related to the design of homes and spaces. To me, the interior design of a space is extremely important, whether it is for a house, school, restaurant, or any other type of building. As soon as I enter a building, I always find myself evaluating the color schemes, furniture selection, light fixtures, doors, windows and everything that determines the interior architecture of a space.

I am eagerly looking forward to the opportunity of learning at the Academy of Art University about how a particular space is planned and presented. Moving forward, I plan to help people through my creative ideas and skills in designing and decorating to help them make sure that their spaces look attractive, and also allow them to see what they are looking for. I want to develop my knowledge in this field of study. Working as an interior architect I want to satisfy my clients with all the various projects that I will be dealing with in the future. I know I have all the aspirations it takes to study in this field, to become an effective interior architect. But I also know that I still have a lot to learn. I have a deep passion for gaining knowledge about how to furnish spaces, mix materials, use textures, color, lighting, and other factors to make the space eye aesthetically pleasing.

This program of interior architecture will provide me with a structured path of honing my aesthetic and critical thinking abilities to create eye-catching and welcoming spaces, while also allowing me to keep up with the latest trends in design and décor. The coursework will train me in many different skillsets including sketching, drawing, rendering techniques, material fabrication as well as creating graphic layouts. Additionally, the program will allow me to better understand the elements of design to develop open and modern spaces to fit the needs of my clients.

I have chosen to study at University College Dublin for various reasons. Known for its world-class academics and faculty with the likes of Mr Andrew Keating and Mrs Mary Lambkin, UCD facilitates a rich and stimulating learning experience. Studying at Smurfit Business School would provide...

I have chosen to study at University College Dublin for various reasons.

Known for its world-class academics and faculty with the likes of Mr Andrew Keating and Mrs Mary Lambkin, UCD facilitates a rich and stimulating learning experience.

Studying at Smurfit Business School would provide continual development of intercultural communication, strategic thinking and many more, thus enabling the graduates to make sound marketing decisions when they enter

Alongside that, UCD’s career development team will develop my professional life by bringing in together multicutural perspectives with a combination of seminars, workshops, company site visits and more which would

make me versatile and curious throughout my career.

Furthermore, the relaxed environment and positivity flowing in throughout the campus makes it a safe haven for students.

UCD’s beautiful campus with a mix of an academic hub, research centres, global events, recreational activities, over 70 student societies and the opportunity to feed the swans makes studying in

this esteemed college an altogether unique experience – something I cannot wait for.

Lastly, I wish to stay in Dublin as it is a place surrounded by history, culture, art, research organizations, successful companies, vibrant start-ups and more.

My dream to learn the business while also learning about life will become true while studying at UCD.

I believe MSc in Digital Marketing at UCD Michael Smurfit Business School is a perfect epitome of how consumer behaviour, research, analytics, big data and creativity reinforce each other leading

After getting exposed to the intimidating world of digital marketing, I was looking for a course that would broaden my perspectives by removing the current knowledge gap and by

This ‘learning by doing’ course provides an excellent link between developing my personal skills and understanding the core of the digital eco-system.

The teaching methodology in this course allows students to immediately apply their learnings in assignments and by solving case studies in class.

My goal is to have an in-depth understanding of marketing and become extremely flexible in this field from this program.

Though I am not expecting to master all keys, I am competent enough to gain a global understanding of the subject.

Moreover, I also look forward to experience open-mindedness and diversity between professors and students from different backgrounds.

Hailing from a small-town in Bikaner, Rajasthan, my upbringing and obstacles have taught me the importance of education and its influence in shaping our perspectives and life as a whole.

Soon, my parents made a decision and moved into a metropolitan city – Kolkata, to provide us with proper education and facilities.

In addition to studying full-time, I also had to support my family by working full-time which severely affected my grades – but I don’t regret a moment of it.

When I look back at those days, I realize that my struggles have transformed me into a stronger person than before.

Currently, I am handling the digital marketing landscape at one of the leading real estate company in India – Sugam Homes.

My experience so far has been enriching as within few months, I was successful in formulating a new strategy for our digital campaigns which increased the conversion rate by

20%, thereby boosting our main business objective, which meant increasing sales.

What sets me apart from others is my perseverance and strong ability to succeed.

All of my experience in life has prepared my mind to be ready, whenever a difficult situation arises.

I have been a preacher of doing the right thing and giving my best without thinking about what the result would be.

I may lack exceptionally good grades like my peers, but I think my experience, extracurricular activities, volunteer work and most importantly the approach to thinking differently, act responsibly and

be a person who makes a difference in this demanding environment makes me a worthy applicant for this scholarship.

Receiving this scholarship would also weigh down my father’s burden and inspire me to work harder to become a better daughter, a better friend and most importantly a better human

I am determined to embark on an exciting journey after the completion of this course wherein I would imbibe my learnings to produce critical and reflective marketing decisions.

In the short term, I hope to build the necessary skills required to collaborate in an international market.

I wish to become an innovative marketing professional who can drive strategic, creative and long-term solutions to challenging problems.

I believe this course would help me extend my knowledge in a data-rich environment by polishing my skills to manage the incoming technological disruptions in marketing.

In the long term, I picture myself being a successful alumnus, of UCD Michael Smurfit Business School, by founding my marketing consultancy and by dealing with clients on a higher level.

This course will fulfil my long-term goal to become an expert in the field of digital marketing and analytics and to be a global actor in tomorrow’s world.

Most importantly, I would like to see myself in a position wherein I would be able to explore life’s possibilities, unleash my potential as a marketer and have a

positive impact on the world by helping the ones in need.

While being in my home country, I would represent UCD at regional career fairs, external events or pre-departure session and would yield useful information for the prospective students in my country.

I could also act as a point of contact for students who are keen on gaining information about workload, classes, and life as a UCD student.

Being a UCD Ambassador would involve adjusting to various things out of my comfort zone, being insanely stressed, learning exciting things while having sleepless nights and experiencing the student life

I need financial help to attend college in the UK because I am a low-income student. I am the 1st child to attend college. Although my parents gave me much support, I received limited financial help because of low family income. My father, who was the bread weaner of the family, passed away. To reduce family burden, I took out student loans, enter competitions to pay for my tuition. Meanwhile, I am working 45 hours per week off-campus to support myself and pay the debt I owe the University. However, with the increasing inflation this year in Zimbabwe, I am facing more challenges in financial need.

Zimbabwean University tuition fees are cheap compared to those in the UK at the University of Edinburgh. Despite the cheap tuition fees, I am struggling to finish the debt I owe the University. Undoubtedly, I cannot afford to fund my studies at the University of Edinburgh. The MasterCard Foundation Scholarship will allow to be breaking the social norms, learn at one the best Universities in the UK and gain world-class education that can make me effective early in my career. The scholarship will allow me to spend more time on my major courses and not worry about tuition fees debt. The MasterCard Foundation Scholarship will remove the financial burden and allow me to have more time on mastering my studies. Therefore, I would appreciate a helping hand so I can successfully get my master’s degree. According to the Clifton Strengths assessment, my core values are restorative, communication, responsibility, including, and positivity. I strongly agree with these values because they reflect who I am. I have shown these values in both my personal and professional life.

I am very good at figuring out what is wrong and resolving it. An example is when I figured out that the Manhinga Orphanage needed helping hands items of blankets, clothes, and food. As the Secretary-General of an on-campus church group, I mobilized fundraising initiatives to raise money to buy blankets clothes and food which we donated to the Orphanage. Besides, I also find it easy to put my thoughts into words. I enjoy presentations and being a good conversationalist. During the UNLEASH Innovation Lab in Shenzhen, China 2019, I was in a team of 5 members from different countries. I ensured teamwork through coordination, communication, and commitment. As the team leader, I was inclusive of everyone irrespective of color, gender or race, and I enjoyed presenting whenever given the chance to pitch our idea. Even in those tough times, I have this contagious enthusiasm to get others to find excitement about what they can do. An example is during the Mandela Washington Fellowship when my group was almost giving up the ideation phase of the Human-Centered Design Thinking Process. I gave the team hope and energy to put more effort, and we passed that stage one of the brilliant ideas to work on.

My unique ability to identify community problems, influence and start solutions define me as a self-driven and compassionate leader. At Mega Pak Zimbabwe, I am influencing the design of a plastic pelletizer machine. Mega Pak is subcontracting Plasmoplastics (Ltd) to recycle plastic material on its behalf. Subcontracting is expensive, causes delays to the production system, and deliver a poor quality product. Initially, I faced a lack of support from the directors because I had no experience in project management. Eventually, I persuaded them to support the idea financially. At first, I selected a team of 10 artisans and created a project plan with clear objectives, task assignments, and the timeline for the project. Second, I developed a weekly work plan outlining daily activities, distributed the workload, and held daily meetings after work with the group members. Third, I am coordinating the execution of the project through planning, organizing, and controlling task schedules. The deadline for the project is 5 months, but the machine is possible to run successfully in the fourth month with a payback period of one month. This machine will generate huge profits and increase the overall equipment effectiveness (OEE) by 10%. This will reduce waiting time, machine jams, and plastic pollution in the environment. It will create an improvement in the quality and creation of jobs to local citizens who will now collect scrap plastics on behalf of the company.

The major challenge I faced during my educational career is the lack of funds and adequate resources to support me throughout the years. My father was a bus driver, and my mother is a housewife. He was the breadwinner of the family and his efforts were enormous as he tried to make ends meet for the progress of the family. Unfortunately, he passed on 18 April 2014 during the year I began University in Aug 2014 when I needed him most. Despite my excellent academic potential, I was on the verge of being a school dropout, since I had no one to fund my educational ambitions to succeed. At first, I sold a few cows that belonged to my father, but they only sustained me one full semester at University. Second, I looked for a job and continued my studies learning during evenings and weekends to pay fees and accommodation at college. I had to finance my education at all costs. Besides this, I also won the highly competitive SOLTRAIN Bursary and engineering project competitions for poster presentations whose money helped me to pay the remaining debt I owed the University. I am honestly proud of myself as I progressed my education despite the work pressure and the psychological trauma I was going through of losing a parent at the most important stage of my life and career.

A MasterCard Scholarship at Edinburgh will enable me to understand more about energy production, delivery, consumption, economics, policymaking, regulation, and related services. This will put me on a pathway to promote development-oriented policies that support energy activities, a decent job creation, entrepreneurship, hence, increasing the industry’s share of employment and gross domestic product steadily by 0.5 percent over 10 years. In 5 years’ post-graduation, I aspire to help entrepreneurs, executives and organizations amplify their brand and create unique points of differentiation to achieve more and reach higher success. Therefore, I will educate, engage, and empower them as a speaker to share personal, professional and business growth strategies. In 10 years’ post-graduation, I plan to earn a seat on the executive board of Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce (ZNCC), to facilitate, equip business and development opportunities that drive the growth of the Zimbabwean economy. Concurrently, I want to establish a business that imports technology by dissemination of both highly complex and non-complex technology from capital-intensive origins targeting mostly energy industries in Zimbabwe. After Edinburgh, I will return home and be at the frontier of the power sector’s transformation and use the expertise to create a sustainable, electrified future for all. I plan to lead the energy transition and actively take part in helping Zimbabwe achieve climate goals and reduce poverty. I will work towards the adaptation of innovative electricity technologies and reduce the global carbon footprint while ensuring economic growth and improving the quality of life of millions of people.

I need financial help to attend college in the UK because I am a low-income student. I am the 1st child to attend college. Although my parents gave me much support, I received limited financial help because of low family income. My father, who was the bread weaner of the family, passed away. To reduce family burden, I took out student loans, enter competitions to pay for my tuition. Meanwhile, I am working 45 hours per week off-campus to support myself and pay the debt I owe the University. However, with the increasing inflation this year in Zimbabwe, I am facing more challenges in financial need.

Zimbabwean University tuition fees are cheap compared to those in the UK at the University of Edinburgh. Despite the cheap tuition fees, I am struggling to finish the debt I owe the University. Undoubtedly, I cannot afford to fund my studies at the University of Edinburgh. The MasterCard Foundation Scholarship will allow to be breaking the social norms, learn at one the best Universities in the UK and gain world-class education that can make me effective early in my career. The scholarship will allow me to spend more time on my major courses and not worry about tuition fees debt. The MasterCard Foundation Scholarship will remove the financial burden and allow me to have more time on mastering my studies. Therefore, I would appreciate a helping hand so I can successfully get my master’s degree. According to the Clifton Strengths assessment, my core values are restorative, communication, responsibility, including, and positivity. I strongly agree with these values because they reflect who I am. I have shown these values in both my personal and professional life.

I am very good at figuring out what is wrong and resolving it. An example is when I figured out that the Manhinga Orphanage needed helping hands items of blankets, clothes, and food. As the Secretary-General of an on-campus church group, I mobilized fundraising initiatives to raise money to buy blankets clothes and food which we donated to the Orphanage. Besides, I also find it easy to put my thoughts into words. I enjoy presentations and being a good conversationalist. During the UNLEASH Innovation Lab in Shenzhen, China 2019, I was in a team of 5 members from different countries. I ensured teamwork through coordination, communication, and commitment. As the team leader, I was inclusive of everyone irrespective of color, gender or race, and I enjoyed presenting whenever given the chance to pitch our idea. Even in those tough times, I have this contagious enthusiasm to get others to find excitement about what they can do. An example is during the Mandela Washington Fellowship when my group was almost giving up the ideation phase of the Human-Centered Design Thinking Process. I gave the team hope and energy to put more effort, and we passed that stage one of the brilliant ideas to work on.

My unique ability to identify community problems, influence and start solutions define me as a self-driven and compassionate leader. At Mega Pak Zimbabwe, I am influencing the design of a plastic pelletizer machine. Mega Pak is subcontracting Plasmoplastics (Ltd) to recycle plastic material on its behalf. Subcontracting is expensive, causes delays to the production system, and deliver a poor quality product. Initially, I faced a lack of support from the directors because I had no experience in project management. Eventually, I persuaded them to support the idea financially. At first, I selected a team of 10 artisans and created a project plan with clear objectives, task assignments, and the timeline for the project. Second, I developed a weekly work plan outlining daily activities, distributed the workload, and held daily meetings after work with the group members. Third, I am coordinating the execution of the project through planning, organizing, and controlling task schedules. The deadline for the project is 5 months, but the machine is possible to run successfully in the fourth month with a payback period of one month. This machine will generate huge profits and increase the overall equipment effectiveness (OEE) by 10%. This will reduce waiting time, machine jams, and plastic pollution in the environment. It will create an improvement in the quality and creation of jobs to local citizens who will now collect scrap plastics on behalf of the company.

The major challenge I faced during my educational career is the lack of funds and adequate resources to support me throughout the years. My father was a bus driver, and my mother is a housewife. He was the breadwinner of the family and his efforts were enormous as he tried to make ends meet for the progress of the family. Unfortunately, he passed on 18 April 2014 during the year I began University in Aug 2014 when I needed him most. Despite my excellent academic potential, I was on the verge of being a school dropout, since I had no one to fund my educational ambitions to succeed. At first, I sold a few cows that belonged to my father, but they only sustained me one full semester at University. Second, I looked for a job and continued my studies learning during evenings and weekends to pay fees and accommodation at college. I had to finance my education at all costs. Besides this, I also won the highly competitive SOLTRAIN Bursary and engineering project competitions for poster presentations whose money helped me to pay the remaining debt I owed the University. I am honestly proud of myself as I progressed my education despite the work pressure and the psychological trauma I was going through of losing a parent at the most important stage of my life and career.

A MasterCard Scholarship at Edinburgh will enable me to understand more about energy production, delivery, consumption, economics, policymaking, regulation, and related services. This will put me on a pathway to promote development-oriented policies that support energy activities, a decent job creation, entrepreneurship, hence, increasing the industry’s share of employment and gross domestic product steadily by 0.5 percent over 10 years. In 5 years’ post-graduation, I aspire to help entrepreneurs, executives and organizations amplify their brand and create unique points of differentiation to achieve more and reach higher success. Therefore, I will educate, engage, and empower them as a speaker to share personal, professional and business growth strategies. In 10 years’ post-graduation, I plan to earn a seat on the executive board of Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce (ZNCC), to facilitate, equip business and development opportunities that drive the growth of the Zimbabwean economy. Concurrently, I want to establish a business that imports technology by dissemination of both highly complex and non-complex technology from capital-intensive origins targeting mostly energy industries in Zimbabwe. After Edinburgh, I will return home and be at the frontier of the power sector’s transformation and use the expertise to create a sustainable, electrified future for all. I plan to lead the energy transition and actively take part in helping Zimbabwe achieve climate goals and reduce poverty. I will work towards the adaptation of innovative electricity technologies and reduce the global carbon footprint while ensuring economic growth and improving the quality of life of millions of people.

My name is …. who was taking diploma course in the major of banking and finance at Kaplan Higher Education Academy in 2018, I am currently enrolled in my first trimester as a full-time undergraduate student. I am honored to have an opportunity to apply for the Intake 41 scholarship program. I am very grateful to the school for giving us such an opportunity to get financial support and the management team for helping me during diploma study. I believe that accomplishing a diploma study just a fundamental step in my academic pursuits and choosing Kaplan Higher Education Academy will be an important factor in reaching my academic excellence. I am committed to pursuing Bachelor’s degree of Accounting and Finance as well as masters and PHDs in the future.

The value of pursuing academic excellence is one thing that I have recognized since I became a student. Personally, I study hard and sincerely to achieve good grades, which is very evident from my school report, am making progress in this field with an excellent grade point average. As every coin has two sides, however, there are lots of obstacles and challenges in the process of striving for outstanding academic outcome. The first thing that made me feel stressed was the difference in language and the new environment as an international student. My first language is not English, yet the language of teaching and materials here are in the form of English, which may have led to a lack of understanding or misunderstanding of what I was learning. What I only could do to solve this problem at first was to constantly reread the content of the textbook and the slides of the lecture until I really understood. I did not have the courage to ask for help from classmates who have mastered it or lectures because the new environment has made me nervous. One day, perhaps the teacher saw my predicament, approached me and offered to help me. At that moment, I felt very warm in my heart, and I realized that Kaplan Higher Education Academy is also a home. After that, I work harder and go to an auxiliary class during the extra school hours, keep memorizing words, read English articles as well as listen to the BBC almost every day in order to improve my English level. Therefore, language has become less of an influence on learning. Another challenge is that to balance between time in study and leisure. The teaching system here is different from that of the schools I have attended before. Like the teaching time is very short, the maximum is three hours a day compared to more than 10 hours in the previous school, which requires me to allocate the rest of the time myself. I found self-discipline really difficult or I did not know how to allocate time in the beginning, after I consulted with Kaplan’s consultant, I realized that I needed to balance study and playtime. Gradually, I have arranged time efficiently and make sure I have spent enough time on my studies.

In addition to focusing on my studies full-time, I have also been active in campus and community outside of the classroom, serving on the student union and involved in the badminton club at school, and volunteering at a local charity organization named “Lions Befrienders “during school breaks. Furthermore， with the background of Singapore as a multi-ethnic country, my classmates come from different countries over the world in Kaplan Higher Education Academy, which actually means that there are a wide variety of cultural learning available to me .I often talk to them about our different cultures and lives after school or on weekends because I like to touch different things. I believe that it is important to understand different cultures and respect other people’s cultures, and also to reduce the cultural friction when we do project together. In doing these, I have learned how to manage, corporate with others and think from different angles.

Last but not least, my parents did not have the opportunity to go to college in that era, and have been facing many struggles in their careers and personal lives due to this. They have a deeper understanding of the importance of education， which has led them to inculcate in me at an early age the need to succeed academically and to cultivate my love of knowledge. This is the reason why they sent me here so I could learn more and broaden my horizons. Besides, they have been doing their best to support me as they do not want me to be as hard as they are in the future. Because of their selfless love and sacrifice for me over the years, I have been able to spend the time and energy on pursuing academic excellence even though money has always been tight. I have made many times in the top-ranking even No.1 and become one of the excellent graduates in the previous schools. In pursuit of my academic dream, especially since I have been studying abroad, which undoubtedly have added to the weight of the financial burden to my parents. I used to be a mathematic tutor to make some money when I was in high school which is a way to lighten the financial burden on my family, but I could not do anything in Singapore because of the strict law.

As you know, college tuition is too expensive, but it is a certainly worthwhile investment. My parents sacrificed a lot for me so that I had a chance to be the first person in my family to go abroad to study and take courses with Kaplan Higher Education Academy. Receiving this financial assistance will enable me to continue my academic pursuit, realize my long-term goal as well as the dream of my parents, and ease the financial burden on my parents to some extent.

I greatly appreciate your consideration. Please know that this financial assistance will exert a tremendous influence on my ability to continue in university and will be greatly appreciated. I will continue to apply diligence to my degree study. I can assure that today I am proud of the school, tomorrow the school will be proud of me.

What do you think a four-year-old child does all day? A common assertion would be: to play. However, at the age of four, I was told that helping others and serving the community is a substantial part of life. I had hence spent countless weeks bonding with people at old-age homes and orphanages rather than playgrounds. My name is Zuairia Shahrin and I am applying for a scholarship to aid me throughout my study in the world-class Sixth Form A-Level programme offered by Garden International School.

I believe I am a worthy candidate because of my brilliant work ethic, perseverance, and resilience. The remarkable opportunity to advance my studies in Garden would be an unbelievable accomplishment for me. My previous studies have revealed that when presented with an opportunity, I will strive as hard as I can to develop my skills, rewarding those who have granted me the chance to prove so. My contributions to the Garden community, such as participation in more than twenty weeks of Street Feeding are a reflection of my personal values and key character traits: love and empathy. In addition to personally helping a group of Year 10’s deal with academic stress, I have also volunteered to help in Refugee Christmas Parties, Reach-Out Teaching and Refurbishing during Discovery Week, playing a major role in painting and designing for the community.

Despite numerous challenges like successfully balancing between three coursework-heavy subjects and hard sciences, I have always tried my best to give back to the community. This includes me portraying excellence in the organisation of Mufti Week, Mufti Day, Happy Week and Science Week. The outstanding calibre showcased behind the scenes has granted me recognition and certification as a Secondary Student Leader, Year 10 Director of the Wellbeing Stand and Science Ambassador, the first and the latter being for three consecutive years out of the four years I have spent in this wonderful school. Such an exhibition of expertise in teamwork, leadership, and self-regulation shaped my way to the Fourteenth Formula One in Schools World Finals, where I represented Garden and Malaysia as the Design Engineer of Team Lucendi. Alongside professionally demonstrating creativity, prudence, and love for learning beyond classrooms, I have also developed critical thinking abilities, becoming a more confident version of myself.

My future goals are to expand my social intelligence and teamwork skills by going above and beyond to serve the Garden community even more, through participation in the Reach Out CCA and Street Store. This scholarship presents me the chance to achieve the highest potentials possible and bring out the best in myself. I aspire to be an even better representative of Garden International School in the near future. I thank you for taking the time to assess this application.

As an architect and urban designer of my generation, it is my responsibility to be active in sustainable development in this rapidly changing climatic conditions to promote livable spaces. Participating and excelling in many extra-curricular programs has enhanced my ability to engage in an active role in improving the school as well as the community involved. I believe selecting MRED+D will successfully challenge my work-ethic and skills in finance and development which are important for my profession.

M plan is to complete my post-graduation degree in MRED+D and pursue a career that would be advocating to work on development projects especially for quality social and livable spaces in India. In my past nine years, I completed two internships in Kochi, Kerala, and New Delhi, learned design in various levels, for example, product designing, working on conceptual staged, working drawings, interior designing, conservation projects, signages, graphical communication, and site survey. I needed to pause to pursue a job to get equipped with the market trend and actual project works in planning and development.

Now I am a licensed architect and an Urban designer with more than 1.5 years of experience. I am an executive member of Toastmaster Clun and the president of Book Club in my Company. Other than these responsibilities, I was a contributing editor to a UK-based, a collective of globally connected, socially conscious designers. Additionally, I too am the editor and a part of the communication team of IUDI (Institute of Urban Designers India), a national level association of urban design professionals.

During my break from college including my free weekends, I became more involved in my community mentoring and volunteering in an organization known as MAD (Make A Difference), educating and counseling the children of underprivileged groups. I have been involved and assigned responsibilities to conduct university fest and workshops from my Undergraduate and graduate universities. I am one of the major team players in my department in IPE Global. I was involved in taking interviews and holding meetings with clients and project stakeholders. My project manager assigns me the lead to work on pilot projects and final report writing for our main project where Government of India is the Client.

As an independent person who lives my life to the fullest, I do not prefer to depend on my soon to be retiring parents for financial support, though they would be in a position to help me in the time I require. I think for my age and the lessons I have learned through my experiences, I should find my own ways to earn by working or by contributing my skills and knowledge for a useful cause. By that, I shall be proud of the fact that I can be supporting my education by sharing my knowledge rather than using up my father’s hard earned money.

The scholarship granted by UC Berkeley for my program would provide a chance for people who are very passionate and devoted to their field and want to return to academics, to become exceptionally outstanding and succeed. I hope I become one of those special people and it is with great honor and appreciation that I submit this application for your consideration

My name is Tyler Allenson and I’m currently a student enrolled at Jamestown Community College, where I’m currently working on obtaining my associate’s degree in business. I will then be attending Binghamton University in the Fall 2019 semester. During my experience with continuing my education, my goal is to attain a career where I can use my accounting skills combined with a strong analytical business background to help formulate informed decisions in the world of business. Before I decided to attend college, I wanted to join the military after high school. Unfortunately, I was disqualified because of complications with my medical history. I then joined the workforce to explore what other options that were available to me. I spent a solid two years working full time to finally decide that it was time I enroll into college. I decided to major in business upon enrolling and chose JCC for their affordability and the ability to transfer into a SUNY school after two years. The reason I chose to major in business is because I was exposed to it while working full time and I always wanted to understand how it operated as a whole rather than just my particular position. I also made the choice to attend JCC so I can adjust to the college life at my own pace and have more time to think about which particular field in business that I would like to pursue. Upon enrollment in JCC I took a few accounting classes that I found rather more enjoyable than the other classes I took. After doing more research, I decided I wanted to pursue accounting because it’s all about the inner workings of business and it informs me about how the business operates as a whole, something I’ve always been interested in. I learned many skills while attending JCC and even a job in my field. My skills in accounting will provide businesses with the accurate and correct information to obtain their financial/managerial goals.

I possess a strong passion and interest as to how accounting tracks a businesses’ performance as they go through their day-to-day operations. I have been fascinated with the way accounting information is used in the management decision making process. In order for accountants to achieve these goals, they must have a strong understanding of Microsoft Excel and other types of spreadsheet software, along with a strong understanding as to how financial statements work in giving shareholders an overview of a businesses’ performance. I am planning to pursue a bachelor’s degree in accounting with a minor in business analytics to acquire an understanding as to how accounting and statistics information work together in a business background. I have made the dean’s list multiple times at JCC because my academics are the most important thing in my life right now and I have put hundreds of hours into studying. I’ve even been doing outside research in my spare time into the accounting field while looking at real world issues in the present and past, particularly the Enron scandal and the downfall of Sears as being just a couple. I am also a member of the AICPA. I currently work as a hotel night auditor and have acquired many skills as to how I can interpret financial data, while I gain a solid understanding as to how the analysis of financial statements help management make well informed decisions. Most of the time I manage the 133-room hotel at night by myself which has taught me a lot about the basics of business management and customer service.

Although, I have been putting in tremendous effort to obtain my goals and showing a strong interest in the field, as well as planning on taking certification courses to keep me up to date with current laws and practices. The financial costs of college are holding me back due to the fact that I may have to seek out private loans. The Community Foundation’s scholarship opportunities will definitely ease the financial burden and assist me with eliminating high compound interest rates on private loans post-graduation. Overall, these scholarships will help me jump start my career in accounting and as I grow, I will be well on my way to becoming a successful professional in the analytical field of accounting. I believe my education, interest, accolades, performance, and experience make me an excellent fit for these scholarships. I am certain that these scholarships will help me accomplish my goals and further my education for the betterment of my future.

Scholarship opportunities are always designed to reward excellent academic performance and to support the advancement of studies. While the scholarships are offered for almost the same reason, different students have different reasons for applying for scholarships. The reasons are varied depending on factors such as background and professional requirements. While the Tetley and Lupton Scholarships application was the first I have ever had, I applied because I wanted a chance to develop my profession, to gain educational benefits offered by scholarships, to land in my dream institution, and to be able to study without hindrances due to fees.

Progression of my professional life was one of the primary inspirations to apply for the scholarship program. Tetley and Lupton’s scholarship provides an excellent opportunity to follow my career path, and therefore I will significantly benefit by climbing the ladders of my profession. The whole process of study of another level of education provides the right knowledge and equips an individual with the right knowledge that is applied to produce good results and essential skills. I seek to apply the knowledge gained through the scholarship to tap opportunities for development and growth in my country.

Secondly, I apply for Tetley and Lupton scholarship because it provides an opportunity to clear my school fees and study seamlessly without any interference. Financial challenges have been a great hindrance to my study since I come from a humble family in a poor neighborhood. Financial support through the scholarship would be beneficial for the realization of my dreams. After analyzing the fee structure for Leeds University, it was evident that I was not in a position to finish payment of the tuition fees and other expenses. In fact, I was not even able to find enough resources to support my travel to the university.

Additionally, getting the scholarship provides an opportunity for me to get professional knowledge and come back to develop my community. The knowledge and skills gathered during the study would be useful since I would use them after finishing my study to support the local community in my locality for proper development. After finishing the course, I will travel back to my country to practice and to provide support. I believe this support will be a great inspiration to other students in my country, and thus it will begin a chain of hard work and aspiration to get to make my country better than it is currently. Moreover, professional knowledge will be useful in propelling my career to higher levels.

Finally, I applied for Tetley and Lupton scholarship because I know and believe that it offers me a tremendous academic benefit. The university of choice, Leeds University, is highly prestigious. Therefore, graduation from the university would highly distinguish me from the rest of my peers. Therefore, I would be able to enjoy my education experience significantly at the university since the university will also expose me to opportunities that help to expand my experience and knowledge beyond the class setting through the provision of fellowships and internships. Leeds University has an excellent global reputation, and therefore, getting the scholarship will raise my visibility and make me more desirable to employers and other scholarship admission committees when I will choose to advance my study further.

In conclusion, I will get great benefits from the Tetley and Lupton scholarship offered for Leeds University. Advancing my career and getting back to work in my motherland, will benefit not only myself and my family but also my country since I will contribute to its economic growth. I seek to advance my education and professional life, yet I do not have the capacity to do so on my own. Therefore, I beseech the scholarship committee to consider my application and approve my scholarship application strongly.

A good education is the best hope that any individual has at achieving their desires in a modern setting. The three most important aspects of my life are working at one of the most prominent financial institutions in the world, imprinting a lasting legacy for succeeding generations and aiding in the solution of several national and global financial predicaments. It is my belief that getting chosen to benefit as one of the Tetley and Lupton scholarship opportunities would enable each one of these dreams to come true. The opportunity, coupled with the ambition I hold and the efforts made towards serving my community, will adequately increase my chances of future success.

I believe that the acquisition of a good education precedes an individual’s ability to use his passion while serving the community. My passion for learning has already driven me to indulge in personal research concerning financial management. In prior periods, I managed to secure the position of a financial advisor to a non-profit organisation that relies on donor funding to recruit youth in the community out of drug abuse. My responsibility in this institution is to help deploy budgetary controls to help allocate resources to the most productive sectors; one imbued as a result of the hard work put into my academic and professional ambitions.

When undertaking my duties, I tried filling the performance gap through personal studies and career-related steps but discovered that finance-related positions demand broad knowledge in numerous areas. For instance, advising an organisation on the most appropriate course of action when considering resources and financial needs imbalance would require an adequate understanding of the economic dynamics. Through the scholarship, my professional objectives will benefit from the sufficient knowledge hence aiding in the provision of appropriate financial services in the future.

Similar to the endless professional opportunities, the academic benefits of the being chosen for the scholarship would be vital to my portfolio. In addition to the financial upsides of the scholarship, the opportunity relays an image of a distinguished member of the academic team. As I aim to leave a lasting legacy, the foundation formed on such grounds would ensure that I obtain a proper education and professional training. This perspective will in-turn open me up to more opportunities across the multi-faceted business spectrum, subsequently introducing me to financial problems requiring solutions.

As far as my aspirations go, I look to a future in service under one of the most prominent financial institutions before eventually owning a commercial practice. Building up to such would require focusing on acquiring information, training, and certification that will introduce me to the financial world. The scholarship opportunity offers a chance to take full advantage to obtain data analysis skills, business systems proficiency, research, and problem-solving skills that will and expand my current understanding of the industry.

Particular interest is placed on the Tetley and Lupton scholarship since it conforms seamlessly to my objectives. Also, the broad approach taken while learning finance courses can only be fully exploited when a student can expand their knowledge and experience both inside and outside the class. The scholarship offers such diverse opportunities that will form a crucial foundation to build a platform for achieving my dreams. Earning this scholarship could subsequently enhance my level of visibility by distinguishing me from my classmates and expanding my academic opportunities which in-turn develop future professional capacities.

My name is Shaprie Miller. For starters I would like to say I am very thankful for getting this opportunity to be a candidate to receive this scholarship. This is a great opportunity for myself as well as my family, which means I would benefit from this greatly! People are not always given an opportunity such as this and again I am very thankful. I am a great candidate for this scholarship for various reasons. I would be the first child from my family to attend college. still is working hard on my studies. I am majoring in Criminal justice, which means I would have to study all the time. Many people around me are always against the law. I want to be one of giving back, and being a great role model to children. By receiving this scholarship it would help me with books, rooming and board, and it will also make a big difference in my education. I can solely think about how to pay back student loans. I would not have to stress my mother and other family members out about how I will pay for college without financial assistance. This also would help me complete my classes for my associate’s degree. After going to undergraduate school I plan on transferring to a four-year college to further my education. My top three colleges are USC Upstate, South Carolina State University, and College of Charleston. Shortly when I graduate high school, if I am granted this scholarship, it will be the start to a brighter future in which I am hoping for and it will give me the greatest opportunity as far as being an investigator or a judge. Also If I am granted this opportunity, I would like to make a difference in society, my community, and others around me. I will study hard and miss out on things that will hinder me from getting my degree. It will help me accomplish many goals that I want to achieve. Many others do not take advantage of scholarships offered to them, so I want to be the first to do so.

I pray that I can be an example to many of our youth who thinks it is impossible to excel. Hard work, determination, and great willpower is all that you need to be successful. I have been very diligent with getting the things done to further my education. My impossible turns into possible. I always ask God to guide me as I am getting through high school in order that I be destined for greatness. By me holding on to God’s unchanging hand that will be possible.

In conclusion, after achieving my goals, I plan to use my degree to better my family financially, and hopefully, it will inspire others in my family, and those around me to chase their dreams as well. Where I am from a lot of children cannot go to college or further their education because lack of funds, and they do not take advantage of scholarships offered to them, so I want to be the first to do so. This opportunity is so much-needed and I want to be one of those who could say I had the opportunity, and I took advantage of it. I plan on striving to excel, not to settle for anything less and I was told to be the change that you wish to see, but I know it all starts within me. The road is not going to be easy, but I am going try my best to make my family proud and set examples for those under me.

Like most scholarship questions, I had to think long and hard about how to answer this question. In my belief, I should be considered for the Mother Clarice Baldwin Scholarship because I am a strong academic student, I am in good standing with my church, and school is more than just a waste of time for me. I finished my high school years as a second honors student with a GPA of 3.6. This was difficult for me because I was enrolled in college courses as well as my high school courses. I was enrolled in college courses because I was a part of a dual grad program and received my Associate of the Arts degree along with my high school diploma. Some of these college classes include Psychology, Sociology, National Government, Human Biology and many more. Throughout my high school career, I was involved in multiple clubs. These clubs include fashion club, rotary club (Junior Rotarian), future educators club, and ambassadors club. In these clubs, I was able to open up to people, make new friends, and increase my skills in certain areas.

As I stated above, I should also be considered for this scholarship because I am in good standing with my local church. At my assembly, Christ Apostolic Church, I am the youth assistant under the directory of Minister Andrea Eston-Tensley. In this position, I help her to plan youth days and open myself up to the other young people when they need my help. I am also willing to give up some of my time if it means that I can help brighten the day of another young person. Aside from being the youth assistant, I am a member of the choir and have participated in it for quite a few years. Now, as well as being in the choir, I also help the director with directing some songs and I am a member of the praise and worship team. Finally, at my local church, I participate in many church-related events. At our church we have events that happen throughout the year, and if I am able to, I participate in as many as I can. Some of these events include our community day where we reach out to our community and give back to them; our mothers day tea party where the young girls at our church express their love towards their mothers, and our graduation parties, where I help decorate and plan the order of service according to what our youth leader would like in order to celebrate the upcoming graduates. These are just a few of the events that I participate in.

Finally, I am a good candidate for this scholarship because I take school very seriously. After my schooling, I plan to go far in life. With the help of this scholarship, I will be one step closer to achieving my life goals and aspirations. This scholarship will not be taken lightly and I will try my hardest to get the best grades that I can. While in school, I plan on focusing my attention more on my studies than going out and partying every night. I plan on working hard and becoming the best student that I can be. In conclusion, I believe that I am a good candidate for this scholarship because I am a strong academic student, I participate in many events at my local church, and school means more to me than just a building of teachers.

The thing I love most about psychology is how much of an impact it has on our daily lives. This love truly came to fruition during my undergraduate course at Sunderland University. Learning the various ways psychological research can be applied to improve our lives was fascinating and graduating with first-class honours remains one of the proudest moments of my life.

I chose to apply to Sunderland University due to my previous experience here as part of my undergraduate course. The lecturers were helpful and friendly, and the facilities – like the soundproof research cubicles – to be incredibly useful for research. The psychological research methods course shares many similarities with the previous course, while also introducing interesting new activities, such as grant applications and research placements with a staff member. Studying at Sunderland allows me to delve deeper into a subject I love while also preparing me for the future, providing a broad range of potential career paths, such as a research role or to become a chartered psychologist.

I believe my undergraduate degree has prepared me greatly for this course. I took part in a variety of research, including my own that helped my to develop an understanding of data collection and analysis using various methodologies. I believe that my dissertation in particular helped me to develop creative problem-solving skills and apply everything I had learned over three years of study.

In the time since I graduated, I have stayed a member of the British Psychological Society, keeping up-to-date with current trends in psychology via their monthly journal. I have also done voluntary work with Washington Mind, where I took part in a group teaching photography skills to vulnerable adults in the local area. I believe this experience has lent me broader understanding of the work that is done to improve mental health and how it may be improved. I have also taken part in a multitude of different training courses through my volunteering. These include suicide prevention training, dementia care and various health-related programmes. I have been recognised as a Health Champion by the organisation, Live Life Well. This training really helped me to deepen my knowledge of psychology, particularly in regards to the impact physical health can have on our cognitive functioning, such as with vascular dementia.

My main aspirations for my future is to have a positive impact on peoples’ lives. I think that the best way of doing so is through research and the communication of it to those who can benefit from the findings. This is necessary to improve mental health, not just to individuals, but to society as a whole. It is for that reason that I would like to complete further study and make a meaningful contribution to the field of psychology.

Mathematics can be extremely complex at times, yet I love the satisfaction of ending the problem with the correct answer. The joy of completing a particularly hard question, or the sudden realisation of a particular topic making perfect sense, makes the challenge and the hard work worth all the frustration and dedication put into it. Studying maths at A-level has been the most enjoyable and fulfilling part of my sixth form years, and the logic and reasoning required for the subject keeps me interested. In maths lessons when I was younger I used to look at difficult algebra and think how could anyone work that out, but now I complete more advanced questions with ease due to the commitment of learning how to do so. By studying mathematics to degree standard, I hope to find more problems that I have to learn the workings of, in order to be able to finally say I can answer that. In particular, I am looking forward to exploring more in the field of pure maths. Pure maths has always been my favourite, as it provides a sturdy foundation to all other math that follows. My success and fascination in mathematics has given me the motivation to continue with my studies in mathematics. I hope to expand upon the mathematical knowledge I have already learnt, by further developing the skills and even applying them to harder and more challenging questions. Besides the possible reward of a degree in such a gratifying subject, I will gain greater understanding for maths and bettering my application and techniques will be a great opportunity. Due to these extra skills, my future would be more diverse; from having the opportunity to be a Maths Teacher to being a financial manager or an assurance assistant.

Alongside Maths, I also study Accounting and Business at A Level which proves helpful as they are inter-connected and have allowed me to develop many transferable skills. The maths involved with accounting and business is more on the financial side which includes workings for depreciation and calculating profitability ratios. My maths skills, which I have learnt from my A Level studies, is apparent in both of my other subjects which proves how important mathematics is for different businesses, financial advisors, and in accountancy.

As a part time job alongside college, I work in a cafe in my city centre. Part of my work role involves contact with members of the public and this has helped me enhance both my communication and problem-solving skills. Also, working with pricing and money, I have been able to develop my finance and money management abilities. I consider myself a determined and studious individual with well-developed analytical, language and numerical skills. In addition, by dealing with a busy schedule of studying, work, and a social life, I have acquired time management skills that will prove vital to me during my degree. Being punctual has always been an important quality of mine and I believe being time conscious is an imperative quality in day to day life as well as in the transition to university life. Moreover, my job has helped me to demonstrate my mathematic capability when working on the till or working out suitable percentage depreciations if needed.

Hopefully, a degree in mathematics will be a fantastic experience, and I eagerly look forward to the fresh challenges it will bring, as well as the wide range of career options it will bring such as being able to work in the lines of finance, banking or even as a quantitative analyst -the opportunities are vast. I believe maths to be the best of subjects and the one most beneficial to daily life. I keenly await the transition to university, and I am excited about studying mathematics at a higher level.

In the words of the Dalai Lama, ‘’the prime purpose of us humans in this life is to help other people, and if you cannot help them, at least do not hurt them’.

I have always wanted to be a social service provider for as long as far back as I can remember. To say nothing of, I have been, on numerous occasions, tasked with the responsibility of taking care of countless patients. Also, I have been engaging in environmental cleanups since way back in high school. I feel that I will be able to care for more people in my country with the opportunity your scholarship will offer and that makes me exuberant about my future.

Hungarian Universities offer quality education that will enable me to accomplish my goals of universal healthcare and achieving global sustainability. The reason why I have chosen this programme owes to the fact that I have always had a desire to make healthcare affordable to everyone, with or without a healthcare cover in all countries, especially here in Kenya.

First and foremost, I want to give back to the communities that struggle to get medical assistance and every other day to sustain a family as compared to privileged groups. I want to establish a medical facility that will be free and will provide medical assistance that is affordable to everyone regardless of status. This will include free or low-priced medicine, nutrition checkups and free consultations. Likewise, I have the intention of creating a program that will assist patients financially in cases of surgeries and getting translators in scenarios where the patients neither speak nor understand English in order to ease the burden of language barrier and facilitate proper communication between patients and doctors.

Lastly, I want to create internship opportunities for medical practitioners around the country by establishing an NGO (a Non-Profit Organization). More remote areas will be reached by allowing the practitioners to travel to isolated communities around the country and the world. Similarly, offering nutritional education and support in remote areas will help contribute to the massive physical development of children to ensure the alleviation of poverty in severely-affected areas.

In recent years, I have acquired life-saving skills as I have been a volunteer at St. John’s for over six years, from February 2014 to date. In addition to that, I have been awarded certification in AIESEC Leadership Development Experience through a Global Volunteer opportunity tackling the sustainable development goal quality education that I successfully completed on August 15th 2019 after a period of about 6 weeks at a United Nation’s summit held in Brazil.

I come from a family of four. This carries a lot of responsibilities as I am the oldest and the one they look up to. In other words, I want to be the best example I can be to the younger ones coming after me, whether family, relatives or friends.

There are three things that are important to me. Firstly, family, whose meaning may differ from one person to the next, but for me, life is all about my family. Secondly, being successful at achieving my goals of bringing about universal health care. Last but not least, leaving a worthy legacy. As my parents always said, it is more fulfilling to do something that can help others who cannot be able to repay you, more than anything else for profit. Consequently, I keep this in my mind every day to help me in my quest to becoming a better person in this world.

To that end, making my family so proud and showing them their sacrifice was all worth it, would be a much-welcomed achievement. My sincere hope is that people around me and everywhere else will no longer have to experience suffering, poverty and homelessness. This is why, to me, success is important as it will enable me to have a career that I love and will aid me in financially assisting my family members.

Having said that, I would love to become someone who makes an impact on the lives of everyone in this vast world. I am neither looking for fame nor glory, but I want to be more than a statistical binary digit during my lifetime. I find myself unwilling to accept the status quo that things should remain the way they are, that I can change the negatives to make my immediate environment better in terms of health and in line with the sustainable development goals. Moreover, I want to influence a legacy that will shape the generations after me to be better, to do better.

I became a senior officer at St. John’s in December 2018 after successfully showcasing my leadership skills to the organization for the six years I have been volunteering. This, in taurn, helps me better understands the workings of an institution and get better at interpersonal skills with my colleagues. Additionally, I am a team player as I work well with other individuals in any setting. One becomes better at communication at such levels and acquires critical problem-solving skills as well as having the adaptability to working under pressure as it is a fast-paced environment.

During the UN Global Volunteer Sustainable Development Goals’ Summit in Brazil, I taught children between the ages of nine and seventeen years about the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals), but I realized there was a breakdown in communication due to language barrier. I was able to adapt to the situation by learning a bit of Portuguese and using Google translate in order to get the important information across. Notably, this helped me understand that preparation is key in any planning and having the right information helps in averting problems in the future, similar to my goal of improving the healthcare systems in my country.

Earning a scholarship straight and clean is a tough affair. You go through all the hard work and struggle, with all of your dedication, motivation and sheer will to earn clean money to help you in your educational expenses.

Just like you, the institutions that provide these scholarships to you equally know the importance of scholarships to you. To make sure that the funds provided to students don’t’s reach the wrong hands and the students make the most out of this assistance. Some institutions restrict the use of scholarship money strictly to fulfill the educational needs of a student only. These institutions make sure that their scholarships’ uses are only used for the most prevalent expenses of a student, only consumed for the purpose of education. Some of the most common aspects that fall under the category of educational needs are: tuition; books; room and board; computers. Only a few scholarship institutions provide the leniency to the students for the scholarship to be used however the student desires, but as you guessed, finding such a scholarship is extremely hard and the chances one has at receiving one is extremely low.

As per the usual scholarship-providing institutions, you need to report to the educational institution you are looking forward to attending once you get selected for a scholarship. Once it is done, your financial assistance will show the amount to be awarded. The first part of the financial assistance that will get affected cause of your scholarship will be your student loans, this states that now you will need to pay back less money after graduation.

In some cases, the scholarships are bound to such a tight agreement that they’re directly advanced to the educational institution the scholarship winner is going to attend in the future, only to make sure that the scholarship won’t be a subject to any kind of misuse on anyone’s behalf.

In the end, being accountable for spending guidelines is up to you. Cause, in conclusion, any form of hard-earned education grant which is expended on nonessentials would mean you will own lesser funds for the books and materials. In addition to this, the usage of the scholarship funds could alter the tax returns for yourself or your caretakers.

Be sure to concern both the scholarship organization as well as your school’s financial aid office on the guidelines about how to spend your scholarship grant. In case the rules and regulations are too strict, try to seek if the committee is able to make an exception, or else apply for the scholarship in an academic year when it corresponds to a greater financial need.

Taking the time to understand and comprehend these rules and regulations, you will be able to use your scholarship funds however and wherever it will benefit you the most.

Early in my academic pursuit, I had an unusual understanding about Life that results are a function of choices, especially as it bothers around the allocation of scarce resources, hence my interest in finance and investment. Owing to the investment knowledge gap that exists around the globe, particularly in Africa, I seek to expand my knowledge on how best available resources can be effectively managed, while considering the attaching risk factors, in order to achieve optimum asset allocation, that would translate to sustainable growth and development. My career goal amongst others is to contribute to the global financial space so that it will become an environment where Investors’ interest comes first, markets function at their best and economies grow to their full capacities.

With over four years of working within the finance space, I believe it is imperative that I seek knowledge that will deepen my horizon in investment with a view to using the expertise acquired to help foster financial inclusion within my immediate environment and the world at large, while encouraging the younger generation with similar passion, especially the girl child. The ingredients of having a successful life are determination, hard work & exploring available opportunities and CFA Institute being the premier global association for investment management professionals does provide the platform for me, thus my resolve to apply for the Charter qualification exams.

My aspiration, just like every other good pursuit, is not without a challenge. I am financially constraint because my current income is just about enough to cater to my basic cost of living. This is worsened by the weak standing of the Naira when compared against the major currencies of the world, with which the CFA examination fees are valued. This notwithstanding, I am confident that channelling all my efforts and available recourses towards obtaining this proficiency would, in the long run, be worth it and support from charitable organizations would be helpful in my quest to impacting the investment industry.

Five years from now, I would have satisfactorily completed the CFA program, equipped with the intellectual tools needed to become the Chief Financial Officer of an organization and also offering investment advice globally which will satisfy my deep-seated desire of helping Economies growth by contributing significantly to the investment sub-sector.

I would like to thank you for the opportunity to put forward my application for this grant and for taking out time to review it and your contribution to the finance world by providing financial assistance to female candidates. I look forward to benefitting from this scholarship as this would not only afford me the chance to add value to myself, it will also aid my desire to champion the needed change within the Nigerian investment space and globally.

I am currently enrolled in a Doctor of Pharmacy(PharmD) program at University of Health and Allied Sciences Ho, Ghana. My educational goal is to acquire a professional doctorate degree in pharmacy which will enable me pursue a career as a pharmacist and pharmacotherapy practitioner. After becoming a pharmacist, I plan to specialize in pharmacotherapy, the use of medicines in the treatment of diseases, conditions, and symptoms.

My interest in the pharmacy profession is rooted in my desire to be involved in the improvement of others’ health, to be knowledgeable in the various topics pertaining to health care, and to possess the means to explore my fullest potential through a meaningful career. I therefore think pursuing a career in pharmacy will provide me with the opportunity to help improve patient health on a larger scale. After graduation, I plan to practice pharmaceutical care in our local healthcare system especially in rural communities where there is lack of access to pharmaceutical care.

After graduation, I want to undertake various projects to improve the standard of living and quality of health of underserved populations in my country. The first project I want to undertake as a pharmacist is to partner with physician colleagues to establish a free alcohol and drug addiction treatment clinic around the country to provide free medical assistance to drug addicts regardless of the patient’s race, gender or sexual orientation. The diverse health services would include free consultations, free medication, and nutritional classes to curb the menace of alcohol and drug addiction in the country. This project is necessary because millions of chronic alcohol and drugs addicts in my country particularly my community are left without proper addiction treatment due to low funding and support given to it by the government.

The second project I would like to undertake is to establish in my country Ghana is to pioneer the establishment of medication adherence clinics within our healthcare system for patients with chronic conditions such as diabetes and hypertension. Patient noncompliance and non-adherence to medication is one of the important reasons for the failure of therapies and treatments. I believe improving medication adherence would have a far greater impact on the health of the population than any improvement in specific medical treatments. Together with other colleagues I would like to use my expertise in medication reviews, medication therapy management and enhanced patient counselling skills to improve medication adherence among patients with chronic disease conditions.

Another project I want to accomplish is to establish a non-profit organization which will seek to create avenue for medical and pharmacy students to go on medical outreach in isolated communities around the country to provide free medical services. I believe this initiative will greatly help to bridge the healthcare disparity gap and provide the needed healthcare intervention to marginalized communities, especially indigenous groups from poverty stricken part of the country.

However, these beautiful plans will only remain a dream if am not able to get the needed financial assistance to able to complete my pharmacy degree. As a matter of fact, I would not be at this level in my education without my mother’s support. Without having my father’s economical assistance, she has single handedly financed my education till now. But sadly, due to unexpected financial crisis, I am at risk of dropping out of pharmacy school if I don’t get sponsorship. This situation has arisen because my mother is battling with stroke resulting in financial difficulty. She works as a petty trader in our hometown, but the money she earns is not enough to pay for my pharmacy school, her medical bills and also cater for my younger siblings. As a result, I have resorted to doing odd jobs during vacations to help contribute to the achievement of my university education and help buy basic needs like textbooks.

I believe I deserve to be selected as a recipient of your foundation’s scholarship because despite the financial hardships, I have remained committed to making the most of my studies and have always done what is necessary to further my education. Besides, I am a student that does not only persistently work hard academically, but I constantly try to improve my own community’s quality of life by volunteering with our community clinic during vacations.

I believe education is the key to success, and I try to connect my passion for education with my desire of helping others. As a result, I decided to join a non-profit organization named HeartyLove Foundation, which provides free healthcare services such as health screening and donation of medicines to clinics in remote areas of the country. We also provide free educational resources to deprived schools and try to educate students from deprived communities about the steps they need to take in order to attain a higher education. As a member of the organization, my responsibilities consist of planning and organizing educational discussions about career occupations in the various fields of study. I believe that education should be a right not a privilege, and when I see that students are being denied the right of acquiring education, I feel the need to take action. Consequently, this is the major reason why I decided to be an active member of HeartyLove Foundation.

On the other hand, there are other leadership roles that I play on campus and in my community. From 2018 till now, I have been the treasurer for TEDx Talk club on campus where I help organize and seek for sponsorship for our TED talk to educate students on host of topics such as entrepreneurship and career choices. In addition, I am the Vice President of my community youth association where I help organize social, cultural and community service events for the youth in community. I lead group discussions on drug safety where I educate the youth on the effect of drug and alcohol misuse and the proper use of medicines.

I am grateful to find opportunities like the one your foundation is providing to students like myself who are constantly fighting for the right to receive education.

This scholarship represents to me an opportunity to fully focus my attention on the main objective of achieving the best I can in the Doctor of Pharmacy program. I will strive to be a representative and ambassador of Ascendant New York throughout my future career. I thank you for taking the time to evaluate this application and look forward to being selected as an Addiction Treatment Education scholar.

Many students look for different ways to fund your college tuition depending on their families income level and others. The best way to manage the cost is by aiming at a scholarship or a grant which are need based aids. Especially when you are a high-achieving student and may not qualify for a financial aid, the merit scholarship comes into picture. The best part about getting a scholarship is, you are not required to pay it back. This article addresses the merit scholarship, how you can get one, eligibility, application and much more.

Merit scholarships are awarded to students based on the achievements, academic excellence, talent and performance on the standardized tests in various fields such as academics, athletics, art or special interests. Colleges aim at selecting the best eligible candidate among the diverse applicants and mainly blind towards factors such as financial background. Students offered with merit scholarships could use it to cover tuition, room and overall expenses at the college.

There are eligibility criteria to get the merit scholarship and it depends vastly on the type of scholarship you are applying for:

Searching for the scholarships based on merit and your eligibility may be challenging. Here are few scholarships that are listed to help you: Pure Merit Award; National Merit Scholarship; Ronald McDonald Scholarship; Coca-Cola Scholarship; Merit with Financial Need Scholarship; Gates Millennium; Horatio Alger Scholarship; Jackie Rominson’s Foundation Scholarship Program; Engebretson Foundation Scholarship; Jack Kent Cook Foundation College Scholarship Program; Elks National Foundation Most Valuable Student Competition.

Students are offered various opportunities to manage their finance and to cover their tuition. This helps them to pursue their career goals and attain their dream job. The first option for students is to aim at getting the scholarship which is not required to pay back. Then comes other financial aids such as the student loans. Finding the right scholarship always helps in making your way easier and cutting down the overall cost on college. Earning a scholarship is always overwhelming with the reduced costs on the college bills.

Currently I’m persuading my course in BSC Business and Management. I intend to pursue my further studies in marketing. My area of interest is on how people react and take action in aggressive and intense business environment. Choosing Bargaining and Negotiation as a course for my summer school at the London School of Economics and Political Sciences will help me in developing my area of interest and will increase my understanding in negotiations.

People negotiate daily, often without considering it a negotiation. Negotiation occurs in organizations, including businesses, non-profits, and within and between governments as well as in sales and legal proceedings, and in personal situations such as marriage, divorce, parenting, etc.

It is aimed to resolve points of difference, to gain advantage for an individual or collective, or to craft outcomes to satisfy various interests. Having an understanding about the different types of negotiations styles, ethics, trust and relationship-building, creativity and problem solving, behaviour of skilled negotiators, emotions in negotiations will help me conduct effective negotiations in both my professional and personal life. This course will help me improve on negotiation skills by reflecting on my own personal strengths and weaknesses.

This course will also help me meet and interact with different people form across the world and from different cultures. Understanding and learing about them, their new cultures and the way they look at negotiations will be exciting and sharpen my skills of negotiation with people from across the world.

Harvard Law School recently named Nelson Mandela as one of the best negotiators in history. He was well known for his patience, strategic thinking, practicality, and unwillingness to quit. Like Nelson Mandela I want to make a difference.

I deserve this scholarship because receiving this scholarship will boost my self-confidence, knowing that I not only completed a very important task, but also took the responsibility of creating a foundation for getting me closer to my career goals. Therefore, I plan to work extra hard to obtain a degree from a top educatonal institute in Negotiation and Bargaining.

The scholarship award will only push me further towards my Marketing degree and my dreams of one day having a successful career as an Marketing head. I also believe in giving back to my community by helping others in crisis.

Five years from now I see myself as marketing innovator for my onw company and personally as a great snooker player. I feel blessed that I am given the opportunity to be applying for a scholarship to help fulfill my dream and I will prove that I do have what it takes to not only be a successful student, but an outstanding negotiator.

I am currently studying Master of Science in Micro and Nano System in Technical University of Chemnitz. After completing my bachelors in Biomedical engineering, I started my career in healthcare industries, where I came across various diagnostic technologies like Point of Care (POC) Diagnoses for diseases. My work experience has provided me with a deeper realization of the importance of being competent in the Biomedical field. The innovation of scientific equipment made a considerable impact on me while choosing where to study. Germany came as my first preference to pursue a master’s degree as it has been at the forefront of research and new technologies.

In my bachelors, I have regularly attended seminars which kept me updated on new technologies. I would like to call myself an all-rounder personality apart from academics, I have participated in various extra-curricular activities like Scouts and Guides, dance and sports. I was also an active participant in workshops, quizzes and seminars. I was a part of Biomedical Engineering Society of India – VIT Chapter. Furthermore, I have attended sessions in Nanotechnology lab in Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay which is one of the most reputed colleges in India where I learned about the manufacturing of sensors that helped me to clear and accentuate my theoretical knowledge.

As a graduate in biomedical engineering, I joined Collateral Medical (ColMed), backed by a good academic background and a well-rounded personality. Working as a product xecutive, my job included tasks such as researching about new innovations in medical devices in the field of Gastroenterology and Urology, preparing product catalogues with technical as well as functional specifications and explaining the real-world applications of the devices to the sales team, doctors and related stakeholders who further use the equipment in their respective area of work. I was also involved in attending various medical exhibitions, technical conferences for information about latest happenings and innovations.

As a student, I always aspired to contribute my knowledge in making human life better. Thus, I chose to pursue masters in the field of semiconductors because semiconductor technology can improvise the current diagnostic system and can make the investigation flawless and accurate. During my 2nd semester of masters, I developed interest in system design and fabrication technology in which, I look forward to do an internship or student assistantship where I can polish my skills. After graduating from here, I wish to work on challenging projects and to interact with various clients in the global market to help to build new technique for improving healthcare. Furthermore, my goal is to grow as an individual working on my personal development by improving self-awareness, self-knowledge and self-assessment. I hope to be positively considered for scholarship which will support me economically and can help me to carve my career in this field.

Being an academic cum martial artist, I always endeavor to improve myself in comparison of who I was yesterday. I’ve never lost my enthusiasm for learning new things and exercising the innovation of novelties throughout my life.

I have completed B.Sc. (Hons) in Green Technology and have secured the First class with an overall GPA of 3.79 out of 4.00. I was selected in the top five students to participate in the Japan-Asia youth exchange program at Kobe University, Japan. Right after graduation, I was appointed as a lecturer in one of the prestigious Universities of Sri Lanka. The satisfaction of supporting my students to discover the greatest joy of learning and the opportunity of being a mentor, guide and, counselor for my students are what I consider the greatest accomplishments in my life.

To strengthen my academic career, it is essential to complete my higher studies in the knowledge-rich environment. There are not many institutions available in Sri Lanka that provide a standard doctoral degree in landscaping sector in terms of vertical greenery system. As a fruitful result of my search among prestigious world universities, I have identified the potential supervisor with the same research interest of me in the University of Sheffield, who tremendously supports me to construct my dream research proposal. I hope this opportunity will enlighten new insights by enhancing my knowledge and competencies to shape my future to the development of my country in line with my dream, and vision. By working with a resourceful supervisor not only I can advance my research writing, scientific communication and publication standard in scientific forums but also will enhance the collaboration of foreign institutions in research and the industrial sector of Sri Lanka.

Furthermore, I would love to have international exposure in studying so that I can gather novel experiences through different educational, social and cultural backgrounds. I would be very much interested to see and learn with the well-established, properly organized academic environment of the United Kingdom and take it as a model to improve in my country. However, economical demands to fulfill my Ph.D. in the United Kingdom are far beyond my financial limit. Although I will get paid study leave, when considering the tuition fee and expenses, it will certainly insufficient. However, from my childhood, I never swayed in my decision once I set the target. I always seek out new opportunities to set my own paths to achieve my goal. Therefore, I have been searching for scholarships over various portals that might suit my needs. When I learned about the scholarships awarding by British Counsel, I’m delighted.

As an only child of my family from a developing country like Sri Lanka, I have so many responsibilities to fulfill and so much of promises to keep Hence, winning this scholarship would be invaluable as I can work toward making my dreams a reality. Ultimately, it’s all about expanding my knowledge and exploring the novelties thus I can positively stimulate my students with the wisdom I have learned.

This decision came naturally to me because of my innate inquisitiveness and passion for the subject and I was easily able to narrow down my choice to your prestigious university because of its international reputation for excellence. I reached out to your Student Ambassadors with my queries, and they helped me out immensely as well.

My long term goal can be best described by the Winston Churchill quote, “We make a living by what we get, but we make a life by what we give”. I had decided at a very young age that I wish to give back to society in whatever way possible and have spent the last 12 years of my life dedicated my free time to social work, be it teaching underprivileged students English and Math, conducting workshops on sanitation and healthy eating habits, painting public walls and setting up public benches or just by spending time with these children and playing football with them. A lot of these students are prone to falling sick and have close to no medical help available.

I’ve realized that the sky is the limit when it comes to creating a lasting impact on the groups that I care very deeply about, and in the future I see myself coming up with solutions that will let me apply what I learn at your organization and convert my long term vision into reality.

I have been a bright child since school and currently, rank among the top 20 students in my batch of 250 students in my undergraduate program. I have also given equal importance to staying in touch with the industry and have interned in different domains like a medical clinic, an IT company, a statistics company and a pharmaceutical industry. These internships have given me exposure to the intricacies of these domains and have also made me realize that a collaboration between these industries will unlock a whole new way of solving problems and this is already in progress thanks to the fields of Bioinformatics and Systems Biology. My current internship in the Genomics and Bioinformatics department of an international cancer super specialty hospital has encouraged me to read up more about this field on a daily basis and has propelled me further in the right direction. I am currently working on a project on HLA typing and writing a review on the current trends in Pharmacogenomics. I am also pursuing courses online to better prepare me for my subject of choice.

In order to develop a more well rounded personality, I have spent time polishing my communication and leadership skills. As a swimmer and basketball player, I subconsciously bring in focus, dedication, resilience, and teamwork to every task I take up. Classical dance taught me the lesson of hard work and patience. I am an outgoing and approachable person and this made my various leadership roles – be it as the head of my NGO or the organizer of conferences and workshops – very fruitful and exciting for me.

I would like to carry out more research in the field of incurable diseases. People not just in India, but all over the world suffer from chronic diseases and with the help of systems biology and bioinformatics, we can attempt to use mathematical and computational models to approach problems in a more holistic manner. Epidemics, virus borne diseases and neurodegenerative diseases continue to plague our society and it is up to us to augment research in these domains.

Vrije University has a history of granting scholarships to promising students from the developing world in order to further their skills and knowledge. I am sure many scientists around the world share a vision similar to mine, but what sets me apart is my unparalleled commitment towards giving this field my all. I believe that my dedication to academics, my work experience in various industries and my intense interest in pursuing Bioinformatics and Systems Biology as my future career path makes me a worthy candidate for this prestigious scholarship. I realize the honor being bestowed on me for being considered for selection and I am committed to meeting your stringent performance standards through my diligent and ethical work regime. Thank you very much for this privilege and I look forward to commencing my learning odyssey at the September 2019 semester.

Currently I am a student at Diablo Valley College, and will continue to matriculate here until I am able to move on to a four-year university. My favorite subject is math. I’ve loved math since elementary school. In fact, I am considering mathematics as my chosen field. I am confident I will be successful in the future. I will focus and go the extra mile to be my best. One aspect of that success consists of the ability to reach out for assistance and instruction.

I know that asking for clarification and understanding from my professors is an essential part of a good education. I intend study assiduously for all of my classes. My desire is to be successful. Therefore, I’m determined to accomplish great work, no matter what my circumstances might be. Eventually, I will earn a math degree so I can become an expert in the field and have the ability to make an impact on others. I will also continue to work to improve my communication skills, and thus, increase my personal confidence.

I have continued to attain strong results in academics. For example, I earned an award for being the most improved math student in 11th grade. In addition, I have excelled in all my high school math classes, maintaining straight A’s in those classes. I have always had a passion for math, and I have been told by teachers that I have natural mathematical abilities. Ultimately, I was successful in high school with many A’s and a cumulative GPA of 3.7.

However, I know that academic are not the entirety of a student’s life. Life requires an attitude of responsibility. I have cared for a neighbor’s child an average of three times a week.in the last year. I also tutor my younger relatives with their math homework. My intention is to be a math tutor on campus to offset my living expenses. One other small contribution I make to a clean and healthy environment in my community is to recycle cans. But character consists, also, of understanding of the direction of your life.

That direction became clearer for me when I had a life-changing experience. I was in a Jet-ski accident. I fell off of the Jet-ski and was drowning. As you can probably imagine, it was quite a scary experience. I was forced to miss college for over a year to recover. Afterwards, my apartment and all of my belongings caught fire, making it impossible to pay for my education. So this is my goal, the education I have, and will seek. I really do want to go to college so that I can truly follow my passion of mathematics.

I am grateful for the opportunity to compete for your scholarship, and I am thankful you are making it possible for me to acquire a higher education. A scholarship would truly benefit me. I will work hard to make my patrons proud of their decision to invest in me. I know that all of my goals will remain dreams, and I intend to do all I can to attain those dream. Therefore, I will commit the time, attitude, and effort to make my educational life a success.

Before I tell you about my gymnastics career, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to apply for this scholarship. I started gymnastics at eight years old after watching Shawn Johnson and Nastia Liukin at the Olympics. They were the two gymnasts that inspired me to start artistic gymnastics. Three years after I enrolled in gymnastics, I started competing. Starting competitive gymnastics made me love the sport even more. Though I rarely made it to the podium, I simply enjoyed the atmosphere of competitions. To make a long story short, I faced multiple injuries, took a year off of competitive gymnastics, and lost some skills that I will never regain because my body won’t allow it. Hurting things like your ankle, elbow, knee, back, and neck definitely make it difficult to train. Many people told me it would be easier to quit than trying to regain my skills and strength just to risk getting hurt again. I had too much love for the sport to just quit. Instead of taking the easy way out, I worked hard and conditioned to gain the strength I needed to continue doing what I love. This is why gymnastics has prepared me for the future. Gymnastics has taught me to work hard for what you want no matter how difficult it may be or how many people tell you that you can’t do it. I’m not going to get myself into a career that makes me feel miserable everyday. I’m going to work obtain a career that makes me happy even though it may seem impossible in the beginning.

After high school, I plan to attend James Madison University to major in Hospitality Management. I would also like to attend the Disney College Program. It would be a huge honor to be accepted into this program and work with one of the most well known companies in the world. The Disney College Program will help further my understanding of hospitality management and it will also provide college credit while I’m in Florida for a semester. Once I complete college and earn my degree, I would like to go back to Walt Disney World to work in the Grand Floridian Resort and Spa, with the goal of becoming the general manager. If I weren’t to work at the Grand Floridian, I would also like to be Walt Disney World’s wedding or event planner.

Being the recipient of the 2018 Plum + Grander Scholarship would be such an honor and a huge help to my education. The money would could be used towards my education at James Madison University or towards the tuition for the Disney College Program. If I were to receive this scholarship, it would ensure that I could attend the Disney College Program if accepted. I would like to thank you again for giving me the amazing opportunity to apply for a scholarship that would benefit my education.

The National Honors Society was established to recognize outstanding high school students. It allows you to strengthen your abilities and grow as a person through school and community activities. Having said that, I am extremely honored to be nominated for this organization. The National Honors Society is said to represent four pillars; character, leadership, service, and scholarship. Over the course of the years that I have attended both Glen Este and West Clermont High School, I have displayed several examples of these pillars. Joining NHS would allow me to grow even more as an individual among an elite group of students and present me with numerous opportunities that I would be thrilled to pursue.

I consider myself an exemplary character due to my caring nature, my honorable intentions, and my determination to spread positivity. I go above and beyond to accept others and be a true friend to everyone I meet. I was always taught to ‘treat others the way you would like to be treated’ and I make sure to do nothing short of that. I believe everyone should be treated with respect and kindness no matter who they are or what they look like. I do my best to spread positivity everyday through small actions, because sometimes the smallest things you do can make the biggest impact. I also know that I can handle criticism and setbacks very well. I have had numerous setbacks in my life, but with each one I know I am a stronger and wiser person. The same goes with taking criticism; I know that criticism is valuable and it allows me to learn from my mistakes.

I am a natural leader which is why I fit the leadership pillar perfectly. I have all the qualities of a true leader and pride myself on my leadership skills. I take charge in situations, and get the job done. I don’t allow myself to sit back and let others do all the work in any situation. I take the initiative to go the extra mile in whatever I do. I not only take charge but I make sure to listen to my peers so that everyone is able to have an equal say and contribute to the cause. I know that it is not only my opinion in a group that matters, but everyone’s equally. I take initiative in every aspect of my life, and a current example of that would be the two kittens I recently rescued. I found two stranded two week old kittens in my neighborhood, and I took initiative to bring them back to health. I nursed them and found them a good home. I am a leader in my own life also due to being responsible in accomplishing my own personal tasks like house chores, homework, and my part time job without being apprehended .

I give service in my community through my volunteer work. I may not have the most hours, but I do wish to gain more and expand on my help to the community. I believe that helping those who are not as fortunate as you is key in life. I am fortunate enough to have all the things that are currently in my life. This is why I volunteer at the James Sauls homeless shelter. I do my best to help out those individuals who aren’t as lucky as me. I am also signed up to help at the League for Animal Welfare, and the only reason I don’t have hours there yet is due to attending orientations to learn how to work with the animals. I care deeply about helping others and providing assistance.

The last pillar that I demonstrate is scholarship. I carry out my home responsibilities, a social life, service to my community, and a part time job all while keeping a 3.6 GPA. I have taken advanced classes and have kept my GPA above a 3.5 since freshman year. I take pride and value in my academic achievements, because they ensure a bright future for me.

As a senior looking back upon my four years apart of Marcus High School Cheerleading, I have grown immensely as a person. I have learned many qualities about myself, both positive and negative. This program has carved me into the person I am today and helped me to realize the person I ultimately strive to become. Throughout the years I have gained the insight of coping with stressful situations, managing my time wisely, faking it until you make it, and becoming a leader that all can depend on.

It is hard to believe I am approaching the end of my senior year in high school. Just yesterday I stumbled through the doors of the tryout room with fear instilled on my face not knowing what challenges I would endure. Both excitement and stress rushing through my veins, I turned the long silver handle, that was cold with touch. While opening the door, I stepped foot into a room buzzing with silence— the creaking of the old worn-down court echoing throughout the gym. Before I could blink, tryouts were over and I was in fourth period where I would soon realize, I found my home. This was my first encounter of encompassing the saying “fake it until you make it” and keeping my calm in stressful situations. No experience is quite like tryouts— self-consciously going into a room where three sets of eyes follow every move, motion, and sound you make. My arms trembling, my voice shaky, and pure adrenaline pumping from head to toe, I completed my first tryouts as if it were something I do every day. This has shaped my timid, soft-spoken, nervous freshman self into a more confident, optimistic, and outgoing woman.

Coming into the program my freshman year I was unsure of exactly what was expected of me and how cheerleading could shape me into the person I would become. Going from having hours of free time and no extracurricular commitments to transitioning into devoting my time to attend any events I could to show support to any organization apart of Marcus High School. Time management was a key factor in being successful. Learning to arrive early to every event and balance my social life is not an easy task. After four years of being in the program managing my time wisely has made me a punctual and responsible person that will continue to help me throughout life. I know when it is appropriate to spend time with friends and loved ones, and when I need to be serious and complete the tasks I have at hand.

Last, leadership has become a valuable personal trait I have acquired throughout my years of being a Marcus cheerleader. Filling the role has a captain has made the greatest impact of who I am today. Throughout the season, I face difficult situations where I have to evaluate and decided with my other captain, what is the best option that will benefit our team. Being a captain I have not only improved in becoming an admirable leader, but, I have also excelled in communication skills, responsibility, and portraying an image for those younger to look up to.

I would not be the person I am today without this program. Every year I grow more and more into the person I strive to be with the help of Marcus Cheer and all involved in it. Each lesson and attribute I have obtained through cheerleading reflects me as a person and I will always cherish the experiences I have taken from the program.

I believe I consider myself a suitable candidate for Opportunity Funds Program because I am a determined and industrious student who will devote herself to efficiently taking advantage of the prospect that the scholarship will offer me.

Having the belief that my passion for learning is fascinatingly allied with my desire to help others, not only do I excel as a student in my studies, but I also seek unique ways to see and connect with the material through real-world scenarios while constantly trying to improve the surrounding around me and make a difference somehow.

For instance: In my role as the Deputy Head Academics of my school from 2017 to 2018, I was tasked with scheduling and bringing together academic events for student partakers. I implemented my exposure and enthusiasm as a leader and a spokesperson to view what methods worked best for participation, created a presentation showing some plausible techniques to draw students, and gave a discourse about it in the assembly hall. Likewise, I encouraged the school head and prefect members to share their visions and talked of the delivered approaches that could be implemented in their duties too. The following month, students’ participation in the annual debate contest dramatically increased.

I have been volunteering for environmental cleanliness in my community for about three years now. When I first took part in it as a volunteer, the staff committee was trying to abate plastic usage in everyday lives. I turned to two other nearby community organizations and attended a workshop class. I did my research unswervingly and discussed the findings with the volunteer coordinator who approved my request to host a two-day awareness campaign in the local common building event for people of and nearby our area. I worked with the staff and my fellow volunteers to plan activities and food to serve at the event. I also designed paper bags and promoted information about its users through social media channels. The students enrolled in the educational institutes at that time came to an approach of severely minimizing plastic pens and instead buying refills or using a fountain pen that runs on organic ink.

Prior to this, I was a volunteer for international SOS day where I lent a hand in organizing community service activities for school including blood donation drives and health checkups.

In addition, I organized study groups for grade 10 pupils of my community. I strengthened my knowledge of the subject while helping fellow classmates understand the material.

I have repeatedly been asked to train new team members of various grades on the basics and help them get up to speed. Once in a junior-level safety education class, the students were broken off into teams of eight and had to complete a large project throughout the entire year. The team I led ended up getting the highest grade in the class because I set a schedule early in the project and delegated tasks to people based on their strengths.

After noticing poor performance on the blood donation program as a volunteer conducted by Red Cross Society Narayanpur where I usually spent most of my summer holidays, I initiated a youth group to aware locals of the village. We spent long hot days of June running from door to door with pamphlets and notices crumbled in our hands. Though the number of donors didn’t upturn straightaway that season, the chairman is of the opinion that they have started becoming more supportive and cooperative with initiatives of the society.

Volunteering activities like these have spared me the privilege to work with people of diverse age groups, socioeconomic upbringings, or expertise levels, to pitch in to serve as an integrated unit in order to attain a communal goal, and encouraged me to comprehend the bright spots and unseen opportunities in a grim state of affairs. I now know what it takes to lead with empathy and endurance and to inspire others to go the extra mile. I have also learned that through giving, you wind up receiving more in the end. Community service overall has helped me develop as a person which is why I always try to step up as a leader or lend a helping hand whenever possible.

I represent a potentially good return on your investment. I am very passionate about engineering and how it can be successfully implemented and managed with a strong understanding of both technical and real-world practices. Although I am very committed to undertaking training to fulfill my goals, the expensive cost of tuition and certification programs had hold me back from taking them.

Receiving this scholarship will create a foundation for getting me closer to my goals of one day having a fruitful career as an Engineer. Ten years from now I see myself engaged at a large local firm, assessing, designing, crafting, and applying alongside giving back to my community.

I am self-motivated, hard working with realistic goals and aspirations, and I wish to make a contribution to the betterment of society as a whole. Fundamentally, it is not so much about me as it is about others, what I can contribute to improving the world, and how can I, in my own way, make things better for others.

I aim to make a difference in my community, and this scholarship will absolutely be the difference maker when it comes to affording the education I need to do that.

In addition to being a scholar, I can definitely be considered a leader. Recently, I was invited to participate in the. I place emphasis on standing out from the crowd and demonstrating my unique qualities. For example, I cofounded an Indian dance club at my high school. In addition to school-related activities, I also bring my passions to the outside community. One example of this is my role as a youth leader at the temple that I regularly attend.

By furthering my education in biology, I can work towards my career goals in the engineering field.

I believe my education and experience fit nicely with the scholarship requirements, and I am certain that this scholarship will make a significant contribution to my continuing education.

While education can open many doors, success relies on inquisitiveness and perseverance. I have the desire and the determination but lack the financial backing needed to achieve my goal of becoming an Engineer. This scholarship would award me an opportunity to pursue the career of my dreams; a career rooted in service but threatened by a loss of altruism. My desire is to give a little bit extra and do a little bit more.

Receiving financial aid would allow me to make a difference in the ever-changing and challenging world of engineering. My family has always supported my efforts, but unfortunately, they cannot afford my college fees. That is why I am taking the initiative of applying for this scholarship.

While I am constantly trying to find more work and searching for scholarships that will help me pay for my education, I remain grateful to find opportunities like the one your foundation is providing to students. It makes me feel that I am not alone on the journey of accomplishing my educational goals.

By awarding me this scholarship, more people could benefit than me. I assure you that your investment will not go to waste.

Your organization has been providing young aspiring students with funds to further their skills and aid them in their education. With your help, I will hone my natural instincts and learning, writing, and leadership skills.

I am aware that there are plenty of applicants, who are eligible for this scholarship, but my unique experiences are good pointers for my future triumphs, and receiving this award will unlock the entrance to many more opportunities. I deserve this scholarship not just because I won’t be able to go to my dream school without it or due to my moderately high GPA. Instead, I believe that I am a perfect fit, a uniquely deserving candidate because all of my aptitudes and endeavors have come together to get me where I am at this moment.

I sincerely feel thankful for the committee’s time in accessing my application and giving me the chance to convey my story. I look forward to hearing from you.

For me, I understand that leadership is about the ability to serve people around you. A leader is an individual who can influence, motivate, and exhort people to achieve goals. I discovered my leadership qualities when I found myself in college and I was always volunteering to take up any task given to my classmates by lecturers. I am someone who goes the extra mile just to make people happy and be in a stable mental state because I see a leader as placing others’ interests above yours. This principle led me to hold leadership positions on campus. Being a member of the Red Cross Society of Nigeria, while serving as a corp member, my team and I carried out sanitation in some local governments, volunteered during some disasters, contributed money, and bought items to donate to motherless babies’ homes. This was challenging for me based on some constraints like time and finance but I pushed on to complete the task because my leadership quality in me kept pushing me for it.

While I was working in Nigeria Maritime Administration and Safety Agency as a national service member, my leadership qualities gave me the privilege to be a leader. Like the leaders of all the corp members in the agency, this was funny when my boss told me I was leading some staff in the agency when I was not even a staff because of the way I handle a situation in the agency. I held positions as a multimedia secretary in Redeemed Christian Fellowship. It was also a challenging one because this Christian fellowship was filled with students, I came up with a one-day lecture for them to understand that they were potential leaders of different spheres and that leaders do not act the way other people do but set standards for people to follow by displaying leadership skills. I was happy that after my sections with my teammates, everyone was already a leader doing things at the right time and my multimedia team was the best fellowship multimedia on campus, other fellowships multimedia teams come to us for pieces of training and advice. Also, I was the financial secretary of Eden Corpers Fellowship Lagos, Enactus (ENtrepreneurial ACtion US) in the Federal University of Technology Owerri branch. Enactus is an NGO that provides a platform team of outstanding university students to create a community development project that put people’s talents at the center of improving their livelihoods.

During my tenure, I finance most of the community development services projects from the proper management of finance. The Chevening Scholarship will further enhance my leadership skills and prepare me for career challenges. With the help of the Chevening master’s degree scholarship all my plans would be a success.

Getting into college can be difficult for someone who can’t afford it. I am one of these people which is why I am hoping for a scholarship. A scholarship can be very helpful so I can able to go to college and try to become what I want to be.

In college, I want to major in psychology. I love psychology because I think that it is an interesting subject. In the field of psychology, I can study to be a lot of things, such s a counselor, psychiatrist, and much more. As long as I get to help people and do what I love this job will be wonderful. It should also pay well which is a great thing. Money is a very important thing in the economy.

With the money I can be able to pay back all that my mom and grandma have ever done for me and gotten for me when I needed it. Going to college and getting a job would help me achieve all of my goals for the future. Having money will also assure me that I and my own family won’t have to worry about any kind of money trouble as well.

I am a very responsible person so if I got a scholarship I will use it wisely. I won’t just get a scholarship and for some reason not use it. Being trustworthy is also what I am which is a good trait because that means I can be trusted.

The scholarship is a commitment to learning. Scholarship means academic study or achievement or learning at a high level. A good scholar is willing to spend lots of time on important reading and study, as they know the lasting benefits of a learned mind. Learning should be lifelong and continuous.

In relation to NJHS, this is the academic side of the school. The ideal NJHS member should be diligent and careful about their schoolwork and should rise to meet all academic challenges. This pursuit goes far beyond the grades received in school. NJHS students should be curious and strive to see how the world outside of school relates to their schoolwork.

I have many positive character traits that will benefit NJHS such as scholarship, perseverance, and responsibility. Firstly, I consider myself a good example of scholarship because I always strive for excellence. I always aim to be the best in academics. For example, I have taken honors classes in science, math, and English in both 7th and 8th grades and have gotten A grades in all of them. I also aim to take honors and AP classes in high school next year to challenge myself and reach my true potential as a student. I strongly believe that I should give my best in everything that I do, and my dedication to academic achievement will help me contribute to our chapter of NJHS in many ways. Another positive personal characteristic that I have that would benefit NJHS is perseverance. One example is when I also had to put in much effort and persevere in my algebra class this year. Some of the new concepts that I learned were difficult and required me to put much time and effort into practicing and reviewing them. I never thought about giving up, as I knew that I had to do my best work. After some determination and focus, I was able to get it done and I did it to the best of my ability. Another example of when I showed perseverance in school was when I did my IRP science fair project this year. Completing an independent research project requires lots of time and study put into solving a real-world problem. I put in lots of hard work and created a successful prototype that was able to solve my selected problem. After persevering to make a thorough and concise final product, my commitment and persistence paid off and I received an A+ as my final grade on my science fair project. My third and final character trait that will help NJHS is responsibility. I show responsibility at school and outside school as well. I have always completed all my assignments and projects on time and with my best effort. I also strive to organize my time well and participate in class. With these positive traits, I look forward to new ways and opportunities to contribute to NJHS. However, I realize that I have some areas of personal growth that I need to work on as well. Successful personal growth requires the desire to improve and the willingness to strive to make changes.

In conclusion, in this essay, I went over the importance of scholarship, my personal positive characteristics and how they benefit NJHS, and how I will improve in one area of personal growth.

I am currently enrolled in a post-graduate diploma in Project Management at The University of Winnipeg, Professional, Applied, and Continuing Education. I am thoroughly enjoying this program and feel very grateful for all the support that I have been receiving from my peers and instructors. In December 2018, I came to Canada as an international student to study in this program, however, in June 2019, I received my permanent residency based on the Express Entry program largely due to my professional experience and impressive IELTS scores. Although this transition was not a bed of roses, however, I have remarkably managed to excel in my new environment. Working as an IT professional in India for over 6 years and integrating and collaborating with globally dispersed clients has played an instrumental role in instilling a high cultural awareness and the ability to engage in a diverse environment. In school, my cultural awareness can be clearly noticed which makes me a highly communicative individual amongst my classmates as someone who believes in expressing his thoughts freely and is always ready to help others. My strong academic results along with my involvement in school and community services make me an ideal candidate to receive this scholarship.

I strongly feel that in my desire to grow and develop professionally and personally, I not only excel at academics but also display leadership qualities and a strong responsibility to serve the community. The inspiring people whom I have encountered and the knowledge that I have gained throughout my time in Canada have contributed to the evolution of my personality which personifies the qualities sought after by the scholarship.

I have always tried to deliver my best in all undertakings. This is exhibited on the academic front and currently, my GPA stands around 3.85. All my instructors and students at PACE speak highly of me and find me a curious and insightful student. In addition to that, being the head of The Student Enrichment Committee at PACE, I try to implement new ideas with the support of my teammates. One recent example of my leadership can be demonstrated through my idea of collecting donations and implementing them successfully. As a result of which our team delivered more than 250 food and hygiene items to Siloam Mission in Winnipeg. My proactiveness and inclination to get involved can also be understood by the fact that during the very first week at The U of W PACE, I volunteered for Parks Canada at the PACE Cultural night. My curiosity and the ability to attract thoughtful conversations bagged me another wonderful opportunity to volunteer for The Project Management Institute Manitoba Chapter which I have been currently doing since July 2019. Furthermore, to promote cultural diversity in Canada, I volunteered for the Folklorama El Salvador Pavilion in August 2019. My involvement with various volunteer programs has provided me with the opportunity to enhance my active listening skills, gain insight into the various cultures, and taught me to be more inclusive and non-judgmental. It is through these experiences that I have grown into an unbiased and modest man who desires to excel in his fields of interest and serve society in the best possible way.

Through the experiences gained after moving to Canada and through the knowledge of business courses attained at The University of Winnipeg PACE, I have become increasingly interested in the field of Project Management and Canadian business. I feel very passionate about people and projects and transforming lives using those opportunities. This one-year intense program is a great start in my journey as it has enabled me to attain a highly advanced theoretical and practical understanding of Project Management and business management. My long-term goal is to get involved in the Canadian business market and this program has empowered me to lay a solid foundation to build upon very soon.

To condense, through this post-graduate program, I have challenged myself with a deeper understanding of Canadian business and Project Management and undoubtedly, I am highly optimistic to work for an employer in Winnipeg with whom I share my core values and beliefs with.

My persistence, perseverance, and the quality of overcoming any obstacle along with my outstanding academic results make me the best candidate to receive this scholarship.

A current ongoing controversy in the world today surrounds the topic of tuition free public college. The topic came to worldwide attention in the 60’s when the tuition-free state universities in the US started making social and legislative changes, which began the era of the student loan crisis. The changes began after WWII, as the GI Bill increased the number of Americans wanting to go to college, and continued into the 1960’s, culminating in Civil Rights and student protests. These events, the new influx of college eligible Americans, and their related demand for education (which outpaced supply and funding), led to the end of free-tuition state universities, the start of universities as a for-profit business, and the start of the student loan crisis under the Johnson and Nixon administrations. Johnson’s arguably well-intentioned legislation created a huge influx of college eligible Americans. Instead of continuing the tradition of tuition-free public colleges by increasing tax funding to meet these demands, states began reducing the per-student funding across the board, and state schools began charging tuition for the first time since the Morrill Land-Grand Act. (Sanchez) The topic comes up again when Obama unveils the America’s College Promise proposal to make two years of community college free for responsible students, letting students earn the first half of a bachelor’s degree and earn skills needed in the workforce at no cost. (Bumphus) Proponents of tuition-free college argue it will decrease student debt, benefit the economy and society, and give everyone the opportunity to the college education they deserve; while opponents argue, strained state budgets, a decrease in graduate rates, and financially illiterate students. A simple compromise to this ongoing controversy is to make two years of college as free and universal as high school, building on state and local college programs, and expanding Pell grants to make student debt more manageable.

Proponents for tuition-free college argue it will help decrease crippling student debt. Student loan debt—at almost $1.4 trillion in outstanding federal loans—has ballooned into the largest source of consumer debt after housing. “An increase in student debt alone should not sound alarm bells, but debt which cannot be repaid should—and the evidence suggests more borrowers with large balances will not repay their debt anytime soon” (GovTrack) This will create major hardships not just for borrowers who suffer serious financial penalties for failure to repay, but for the taxpayers left with the bill. The student debt will not completely disappear, it will just substantially lower.. About 2 in 3 members of the class of 2018 graduated a little deeper in debt than the classes before them. Last year’s graduates with a bachelor’s degree averaged about $29,200 in student loan debt – a record in the USA.

Proponents of free tuition argue the US economy and society have benefited from tuition-free college in the past. “Creating a clear path to the middle class and ensuring our nation’s economic prosperity means opening the doors of higher education to more Americans.” (U.S. Department of Education) In the 1940’s to the 1970’s and even some colleges in the 1980’s, students postsecondary education was free. In these eras the nation’s economy boomed because they were not burdened with college debt. When President Franklin Roosevelt signed the GI Bill in 1944 and President Eisenhower signed the National Defense Student Loan legislation in 1958, millions of veterans, women, and minorities came to college because they could afford it and knew their education beyond high school would make a significant difference in their future livelihood. They bought cars, took out home loans, worked hard, and advanced in their careers. trust in one another and key institutions, as well as civic habits of volunteering, voting and charitable giving, were also on the rise among this Greatest Generation. (Transcript of Morrill Act)

Proponents of tuition free college argue everyone deserves the opportunity to get a college education. “The Obama administration is committed to restoring our world leadership in college completion and ensuring every student has access to an affordable and high-quality postsecondary education.” (U.S. Department of Education) We must also recognize the “college for all” goal cannot be narrowly defined to a four-year degree. Rather, postsecondary education can also lead to certificates and open doors to thousands of well-paying jobs, including engine-maintenance technicians, plumbers, electricians, dental hygienists, and radiologic technicians will move them and our economy forward.

Opponents of tuition free college know schools might have to create wait lists or expand the ones they already have. State budgets could become strained, which might lead to cuts are decreased access to the programs students want to take. Free college is not really free — someone has to pay for it. “Eliminating tuition at all public colleges and universities would cost at least $79 billion a year, according to the most recent Department of Education data, and taxpayers would need to foot the bill.” (U.S. Department of Education) Either more money would have to be given to the schools, or they would have to create waitlists. This means the taxes for education-related purposes might go up, or funding for something else might be diverted to pay the influx of fees.

The opposition argues with tuition free college graduation numbers might drop, those who do graduate might not be as well prepared for their occupation due to students taking college less serious because they do not have to pay. (Sanchez) We find countries with higher proportions of college graduates tend to be countries with higher college costs for students. Japan, Canada, the US, and Britain are all among the most expensive countries in terms of net cost. Yet, these countries all have higher incidence of college completion among residents. “We could end up making college worse by making it free. This might not even produce more college graduates: Spending cuts at public institutions tend to result in lower graduation rates.”

The opposition argues students might not learn to become as financially literate or independent as they should be, choosing to stay dependent on government programs whenever possible. If students grow up having poor management skills when it comes to money because of these aspects, they will have no one else to blame other than those who supported this proposition. “The heightened priority given to financial literacy is largely driven by students’ increasing use of debt to finance college, and a perception they lack the skills and knowledge needed to make these financial decisions.” (GovTrack) This information was researched based on those currently in college and paying off their tuition debts. If this can be said for current students than those who will be going into college with free tuition will be even more financially illiterate than those already in college.

There are upsides and downsides to this controversial topic, both of which have decent points. Tuition-free college may be beneficial to the economy in the long run, but it will take time for it to get there. Graduation numbers may drop and wait lists may expand. Debt from student loans will decrease and everyone will get a fair shot at the education they deserve. With all of this said a suggestable compromise is to make two years of college as free and universal as high school, building on state and local college programs, and expanding Pell grants to make student debt more manageable.

The first step is to make two years of college as free and universal as high school. This idea stems from Obama’s America’s College Promise proposal to make two years of community college free for responsible students to earn critical workforce skills and the first half of a bachelor’s degree at no cost. These Promise programs are state and locally funded, all are intended to encourage students in achieving their goals. They also provide critical training programs that are job specific. Funding America’s College Promise will provide $61 billion over the next decade to make two years of community college free for responsible students. This allows them to earn the first half of a bachelor’s degree or an associate degree at no cost. (U.S. Department of Education) Tennessee and the City of Chicago initiated free community college programs. The scholarship is coupled with college counseling, mentorship, and community service. (Fact Sheet) A further step is to expand Pell grants making student debt more manageable. The number of Pell Grant recipients will expand over time, providing college access to millions of additional low-income and middle-class students across the country. This compromise helps decrease crippling debt by making the first two years of college free, therefore easier to manage and achieve goals. From free tuition comes economy and society benefits in educating more students. The suggested compromise also allows everyone the opportunity to get an education.

The compromise suggested will satisfy the arguments of the proponents because although the tuition is not free for a four year college, after two years of free college this proposal makes the rest of your college financially manageable. This satisfies the proponents first argument, which is helping decrease student debt, by making the first two years of school free. This means the students are spending less money to achieve a four year college goal. The proponents also argue that the economy and society benefit from tuition free college. I believe this is proposed in the compromise because students will still be financially literate and independent because housing and other college needs will still need to be covered on their end. With free tuition only being for the first two years, this should not negatively affect waitlists. Two years of free tuition would actually increase graduation rates instead of dropping them. If after two years they want to further their education than other financial steps would need to be taken. The proponents of tuition free college also argue that everyone deserves the opportunity to have a college education. Making the first two years of college as universal as a high school will give those who might not have had the opportunity to try college before realizing it is not something they want to pursue. This means no money is being wasted and everyone gets an equal shot at free education.

The opponents argue that tuition free colleges will have to expand waitlists and strain state budgets. I believe the compromise satisfies this need because the tuition is only free for the first two years and housing and other necessities will still have to be paid for. Opposition argues that graduation numbers might drop, but with students getting the opportunity to try out college not every one of them will want to continue after the two years are up. This would increase graduation rates for those who decide to stick with it. Lastly, the opponents argue that because of tuition free college students might not learn how to be financially literate or as independent as they should be. The compromise suggests that they still pay for other aspects of their schooling, therefore still learning how to financially balance their needs.

College is one of the greatest drives of socioeconomic mobility in America, but if we do not try to keep it within reach of lower class families, it could have a negative effect—serving as a barrier, instead of as a ticket to the American Dream. Every hard-working student deserves a real shot to earn an affordable degree or credential which offers them a path to civic engagement, economic security, and success. Despite the Administration’s actions and the leadership of innovative institutions, much work remains to meet our goal of once again having the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. The Administration says they will continue to act within its power to improve college access, affordability, and completion. (Fact Sheet)

Design thinking is a cognitive process where the person thinks like a designer to try to understand the thoughts and perspectives of the consumers of the products the designer makes. This thinking process helps people develop a deep understanding and empathy of the people for whom they are designing the products. In the nursing field, design thinking benefits nursing students’ abilities in regard to interdisciplinary collaboration and technology adoption.

Interdisciplinary collaboration requires effective communication and understanding. Design thinking helps nurses better understand technological professionals’ perspectives and aids them in thinking from their perspectives. Students are able to better understand the intent of technology designers and be able to follow their intent to better design and modify their current workflow-and therefore decrease the resistance of the EHR implementation. For example, by fully understanding the design intent of the EHR designers, nurses can better learn to use EHR and adopt it in their own workflow.

I bring these design thinking concept to my informatics courses. I foster students’ ‘design thinking’ by encouraging them to provide ideas on how to design and develop a new production (e.g., a mobile app). It is a presentation project in BS and a scholarly paper in DNP. Nursing is a unique profession that builds strong empathy with patients. Empathy with users is the foundation for designing new technologies. Nurses know what patients say, do, think, and feel, and they understand patients’ needs. This project helps them fully explore users’ needs from a designer lens. Different from a technology consumer, a technology designer must first understand the needs of end users, what the potential function of a technology can do for a patient, and what changes are possible for best meeting the needs of users. With design thinking in mind, I observed that, in students’ papers about the reasons for the workaround, they complained less about ‘technological issues’ and had more understanding about the intent and the limitations of technologies. Adopting this attitude will be important for students’ future work in real-world settings.

My design knowledge benefits educators, nurses, nursing students, and technology designers, helping them design and develop a new online course interface. The significance of the design can be measured by the number of affected users. Within the past four years, I have contributed to 29 online course interface redesigns, and I have a total of more than 700 students in my 29 online courses. I have also done seven workshops in related areas, college wide and university wide. Students commented that my online course interface is extremely clear and easy to navigate. As the first author of four articles and four presentations in this area, I have also had a chance to embody my creative and well-thought-out ideas through disseminations. More importantly, I have been able to help others utilize my user-centered design knowledge and insights in their online course interface design and technology training programs. My publications in rank underwent peer review and are appealing to national and international audiences.

Through method-driven scholarship, I pose methods of how the quality of performance (e.g., online teaching, research, or nursing intervention) can be improved in the future. This aligns with research aims 1 b-e.

My scholarship activities for research aim 1 b seek to design, test, and implement the novel ways in which nursing students can benefit from learning in a technology-rich environment, and, through them, I can better determine the pedagogical role of technology in student learning. Understanding how pedagogical technology functions allows faculty to identify novel pathways to address some learning issues, such as students’ disengagement, confusion, frustration, and overwhelmed feelings, which are major issues that afflict many online nursing students. A key barrier for nursing students to receive a technology-supported learning environment is faculty’s lack of knowledge in teaching using technologies. Universal pedagogy is not on the immediate horizon. Evidence is building for the need of pedagogy in nursing education; however, most of the pedagogy are about the methods of learning content delivery.

Little pragmatic research about teaching using technologies in the field of nursing education has been conducted. This does not address the needs of today’s nursing students. Much-needed knowledge in this area include technological pedagogical knowledge and technological pedagogical content knowledge. With this knowledge, faculty will be able to devise teaching plans that involve the use of twenty-first-century emerging educational technologies to support their pedagogy, as required by the ever-changing health-care field; deal with emergency technical problems in the middle of a class; or prepare students for roles in technology-rich health-care environments. An example of this type of scholarship is ‘Using summary videos in online classes for nursing students: A mixed methods study’. A detailed description of this article can be found at ‘Publication’ section.

My scholarship activity for Research aim 1 c is to design, test, and implement theoretical frameworks in teaching. An example of this type of scholarship is ‘Using STML as a theoretical model for a qualitative case study’. A detailed description of this article can be found at Publication section in the dossier. For research aim ld, my research is not confined to quantitative studies, which are the dominant form of research adopted by scholars, especially in nursing. I conducted two mixed methods research studies, an innovative methodology for conducting research that involves collecting, analyzing, and integrating quantitative and qualitative research. Examples can be found at ‘Publication’ section. I addressed research aim 1 e through ‘Evaluating a fall risk assessment tool in an emergency department’.

What’s outstanding about my work in rank is the incorporation of my research findings, which have contributed to teaching using technologies in nursing, especially online teaching. My groundbreaking, innovative scholarly work in rank has gained me a reputation as a well­established scholar.

I am proud of the contributions I have made to the fields of teaching and nursing informatics, and the impact my work has had on quality of teaching and healthcare. I have seen noticeable growth in my abilities to review literature, conduct a primary research, and write and publish a manuscript. I feel fortunate to be working in these areas at this moment and am happy to be able to help expand the field’s growing body of knowledge. As I enter the next phase of my academic career, my goal is to further expand my two long-term research goals.

The pace at which technology is advancing makes this an exciting time to be working in the areas of teaching using technologies. The rapid digital evolution has created a wide range of technologies available for use in health care education and practice. Future students in healthcare fields will become increasingly tech-savvy and welcome the use of technology in their learning. It presents a great challenge to faculty who continue to use traditional teaching methods that do not integrate any new technologies. Healthcare faculty need to understand how to use technologies to serve pedagogy and enhance students’ learning.

I truly believe that technologies can improve pedagogy and in turn improve students’ learning processes in measurable ways. I am driven by a desire to find new ways to use technologies to improve the quality of teaching and health care. I will keep exploring the use of mixed methods in nursing research. Moving forward, my work will continue to be a blend of teaching and scholarly activity. The following are my future plans in this area:

Complete the two manuscripts, with abstracts accepted by SUNY CIT conferences: (1)

‘Fostering Nursing Students’ Critical Thinking and Problem-Solving Skills in Online Discussion Forums,’ and (2) ‘Interactive Rubric Design for Online Education: Fostering Student Engagement and Creativity.’

Revise a manuscript about course leveling that was completed but rejected. I will rewrite this aiticle from a different perspective after sending an inquiry letter to some journal editors, such as at Nurse Education Perspectives.

Continue the two projects based on the available data I collected. One is about nursing students’ perspectives on the mixed methods research design in their own projects. Another is on students’ experiences of using a mobile app to learn about the mixed methods research method. I may publish the related manuscript in Nurse Researcher.

Reflect on my past experience of teaching using technologies, such as Adobe Connect, Google community, Reminder app, Flipgrid app, Twitter, and so on, and write manuscripts. I plan to submit them to International Journal of Design for Learning.

As technology continues to advance, I will expand my research to involve emerging areas of artificial intelligence, big data, ubiquitous sensors, machine learning, and more. I am especially interested in using these new technologies as a tool to customize learning experiences for students. I am eager to explore this emerging area and investigate its impact on teaching and learning. I will thus perform the following:

The specific time, expected outcomes, number of expected publications, target journals, related long-term research goals, funding resources, budget, research site, participant, and mentors and collaborators for each step can be found at Appendix 15 and 16. The mentors will be the experts in a similar area to establish a long-term network of collaborations by writing together on grants and publications.

Healthcare + Technology + Mixed Methods (for long-term research goal 2)

The next several years will be marked by dramatic advancements in technology: more precise sensors, advanced machine learning, new forms of display through augmented or virtual reality, and the ability to interact with computers through more diverse inputs such as voice or motion. Extensive research is still needed to understand nursing roles, new workflows, patient outcomes, and deliverables in these environments. I look forward to investigating this area using the mixed methods research design to develop insights from a variety of data sets. The following are my future plans in this area:

The specific time, expected outcomes, number of expected publications, target journals, related long-term research goals, funding resources, budget, research site, participant, and mentors and collaborators for each step can be found at Appendix 15 and 16. The mentors will be the experts in a similar area to establish a long-term network of collaborations by writing together on grants and publications.

My desire to study adult nursing started when I volunteered at Keech Hospice for my Duke of Edinburgh bronze award in year 11. At this end of life care home, which looked after my cousin in his last moments, I realised how extraordinary nurses really are as I witnessed it first-hand. Nurses that would do everything in their power to make a patient feel better emotionally and physically. That is what I hope to be able to do and provide extraordinary care every day. Maybe someday I can be an inspiration to others to strive for a higher level of care just as those I look up to were for me. During this time I loved engaging in conversation with the patients and developing relationships with these people that had so many lovely stories that I enjoyed listening to.

It was then that I realised I had a talent for providing support to those who needed it and giving an ear for those who just needed someone to listen. I also believe I am good at making people feel at ease when anxious as I have experienced a lot of concerned and somewhat angry customers in my previous job roles, such as front of house staff in a pub, when customers made clear their worries or distaste I would always make sure they were sorted straight away with some sort of solution that benefitted them. I also run my own lash extension business which sees me talking to a lot of customers about their day and a lot of the time their worries in life and better my interpersonal skills. With this experience I believe it has made realise that my bubbly personality and ability to listen and give advice is something needed in nursing when patients just need someone to talk to. Itruly enjoy working directly with people which is one of the reasons I have decided on this career path. I realise that nursing is a profession for life. Once you become a nurse you are a nurse for the rest of your life. It will influence the way you act and think, the way you see the world around you. I feel I am ready to embark on this profession and the way of life it entails.

My interest and previous A level in psychology I believe will help in my study of adult nursing as I loved to learn about the anatomy and physiology of the human body. By becoming a nurse I look forward to helping those not only physically but mentally and aid them into recovery. As just being kind to those who are in need can help their day be better even if it just be for the time you’re with them. I’ve seen this first hand as my parents are foster parents and have taken in children who aren’t as fortunate with a safe home environment. Just that little bit of respite through the week made their childhood a better one to remember as nurses involves bettering the welfare of the paitent. This also gave me the urge to become a nurse as I recognised that not everyone is as lucky as I am to have a stable home and I strongly believe I want to use this to help those who haven’t as I recognise nurses are there through all stages of life.

The scientific and academic side of nursing is as engaging to me as the caregiving duties of the profession, one of the aspects of studying nursing that appeals to me in particular is the balance between theoretical learning and its practical application. My experience with clinical skills may be low now but I look forward to tackling this. My mother is a phlebotomist and has given me some insight into the skills required. I am also an avid blood donator to the blood bank and have encouraged all my friends and family to also do so as such a little thing has saved lives.

I have recently finished reading ‘The Student Nurse Handbook’ by Bethan Siviter. From reading this book I have had a useful insight into what it is like to be a student nurse. I have learnt about medical terminology, nursing models, nursing theories and clinical placements. I also watch lots of Youtube videos on student nurses ‘day in their lives’ and have gained some valuable knowledge and how to distress and cope with the large responsibilities. Your own mental and physical state is very important as without this you can’t provide the best care that needs to be given. I understand that when I become a nurse this will be even more important as being a nurse can be stressful and emotionally challenging, I find it easiest to relax and unwind by playing team sports and listening to music. Since a young age I have taken part in Netball and Hockey as well as lacrosse and tennis in school teams. As I have grown up I have kept my passion and continue to play team Netball and Hockey for my county. This shows my ability to work within a team which is also vital in nursing, to communicate and address issues and gratification is important.

I wholeheartedly embrace the philosophy that underpins the NHS and I would feel honoured to be able to care for people through working within it. From what I have learnt about the NHS it is an organisation that welcomes individuals who are eager to progress to positions of greater responsibility and acquire extra skills by taking on extra duties, spurred on by their personal drive and commitment. The dire need for nurses in this country is one that is shocking and needed and I hope to help to be a solution to that and therefore improve the already amazing but calling out for help NHS. The nature of nursing also demands a person who loves to work with a diverse range of people, act professionally when working under pressure and continue to learn on the job as they do so. I feel that I would thrive in this environment and I would hope one day to become an adult nurse.

In this reflective essay, I am going to reflect on what I have learned from nursing course. My journey from the last 12 weeks and progress I had made this semester also my learning experience in this semester. This piece of reflect will incorporate Borton model of reflection throughout.

And the areas I intent to cover will include the useful of assessment feedback I got from my first assignment the growth and for understanding the area that need to be improve in my leaning, the extent of development of key skills, an overview meeting with my personal development tutor and issues related to my personal learning and finally, areas of my future development I will Identified with the view on how to address them, all which will go toward my improving my personal and professional development.

As a student with some of experience I did similar course to this I felt I had developed self-discipline, which was important for effective learning. Throughout this course I have developed strength and a bit of confidence in some of the skills, such as communication, effective leaning and teamwork. I feel more confident about my verbal communication.

I was concerned about skills and researching result in poor spelling grammatical errors and my difficulties with organising my work. It should affect my understanding of my subject, although it can take me time to absorb what I have read.

This semester has helped me to recognise the importance of all aspects of communication, in both verbal communication and non-verbal, such as body language, touch, facial expression and eye contact. It has shown me how crucial non-verbal communication can be.

Learning about motivational interviewing (MI) made me aware of different ways to communicate. A study found that undergraduate nursing students found that by learning MI, they became aware of the difference between taking an ‘expert stance’ and a collaborative approach with patients (Howard et al 2016). That is to say that MI enabled the students to engage in critical thinking so that they adjusted their message from using language like ‘should’ to actually listening to patients and getting a better understanding of where the patient was coming from. I would like to learn how to better listen to patients and to take into account their individual circumstances. Understanding patients’ needs and concerns it’s allowed nurse to aim communication and clinical strategies for nurses to use effective communication within the healthcare team. And having strong relationship. It will as a nurse to carry out clinical job more easily and keeping our patients engaged in the care active listening and deep listening helps establish connection during conversation; and many other among the many skills.

During a previous placement I worked at an aged care facility and I was put into to practice my communication skills which helped me to interact with people from different cultural backgrounds. For example, while I was working in this sector with a staff carer, I observed through facial expression that the patient was in pain. I went to her and ask her the problem was. She told me she was in pain. I Immediately report it the other staff in charge. After this I made her comfortable and I continue to communicate with the patients. What I’ve learnt here is the good of communication skills are important in delivering health care service. Good therapeutic communication can help us relive patient pain and anxiety. having to do the group presentation was another affective way of me leaning it provide me an opportunity to research the topic and teach to others. Without knowing it at the time of my placement, it seems to me that I used the ‘situated decision-making’ framework in that I observed cues from the patient, I formed a judgement and I took action in drawing my supervisor’s attention to the issue.

Nursing is a health profession that focus on the care of individual, families and communities so they maintain to recover with health quality of life from birth to death. Health planning is assessing patient to find out what the issue is and planning what to do with them.

Diversity also introduces a wide a range of languages into a work place. Because Australia has a diverse population there is a wide range of languages spoken in the community. This diverse community will be represented in care facilities and in the hospital community and diverse work force will have a greater chance of good communication with its clients.

Essential care is a broad concept that that help nurses asses and to communicate with patient and do activities of living and determine what care is required to address the patient needs. Essentials of Care (EOC) provides a ‘framework for the development and evaluation of nursing and midwifery practice and patient care.’ The program emphasises nurses’ role in caring’. Like MI, EOC relies on collaboration, involving carers and patients in discussions and decisions.

Health planning is deciding what health care a patient will need, who should be involved and monitoring the patient’s progress. This will be relevant for me when I am helping plan and monitor a patient’s health treatment. It will also help me document every step and help build a bigger picture of the patient treatment plan.

Understanding patients’ needs and concerns it’s allow nurse to aim communication and clinical strategies for nurses to use effective communication within the healthcare team. And having strong relationship. It will as a nurse to carry out clinical job more easily and keeping our patients engaged in the care active listening and deep listening helps establish connection during conversation; and many other more among the skills.

Sometime we can try affective lip reading to patients the flexibility and adaptability is a valuable skill for the clinical practice is where every person and situation is unique. The care needs are unique to each individual and are vital for preserving patient’s health and wellbeing.

This semester we been using the Roper-Logan-Tierney model for nursing, it’s design as a essentials teaching tool for student nurses and teaches and is used as the nursing care and practice, and also for teaching and learning. the model focus on human 12 daily activities of daily living. Maintaining a safe environment, communicating, breathing, eating and drinking, eliminating, personal cleaning and dressing, controlling body temperature, mobilising, working and playing, expressing sexuality, sleeping and dying. Roper, Logan and Tierney model of nursing, which reflects on the twelve activities of living, is used as a base for assessing patients (Alabaster 2011). These activities are “maintaining safe environment, communication, breathing, eating and drinking, elimination, personal cleansing and dressing, controlling body temperature, mobility, working and playing, sexuality, sleeping, and dying” (Holland; 2008, p.9).

The activities of daily living assess the individual’s ability of carrying out they normal needs of daily activities, from completing they independence to complete dependence, and determine interventions or support contribute to the patients to be more independent carrying their activities. The Roper-Logan-Tierney model, have 5 influencing factors on the daily living, biological, psychological, sociocultural, and environmental, and political and economic. Maintaining a safe environment Is a vital to the individual’s safe existence, therefore is allowing the patients to carry them self on their other activities of daily living. Eating and drinking are essential to existence (Roper etal 199,2000). Firstly, maintaining optimal levels of hydration is vital for life. Water forms the main component of the human body’ accounting for about 60% of body weight in adult male, 50-55% in females and up to 75% in newborn infants. Eliminating is activity that individuals undertake several times throughout each day and is necessary to rid the body of the waste products (urine and faeces) associated with metabolism. It is an activity that undertaken in private. Influenced by societal and cultural norms, the inability of individuals to control elimination is often frowned is but the very young child. Patients self-caring, therefore able to wash and dress them self without assistance on daily basic. Roper el al (19996) chose and call this activity personal cleaning rather than washing, and, including the activities of perineal hygiene, care of hair, nail, teeth and mouth, as well as hand-washing and bathing. Dressing is used to refer to the ‘putting on of clothes’, which are seen as a medium of nonverbal communication and are also essential for living in different environment and social and cultural contexts (Roper etal 1996,p.2234)

Nursing is a profession that improves, protects, and maintains patient health and wellbeing through the treatment and prevention of illness. Nurses are usually considered to be caring while focused on the healing and advocacy of patients.

Nurses’ necessarily make difficult decisions in complex situations. Rather than attempting to teach undergraduate nurses how to make decisions, the ‘Situated Clinical Decision-Making’ framework breaks down decision making into separate phases. The framework “…incorporates context, foundational knowledge, decision-making processes, and thinking processes” (Gillespie 2010 p.334). The phases incorporated into the model, include cues, judgments, decisions, and evaluations of outcomes, which are “…non-linear, inform and may be informed by one another” (p.337).

The ANMAC is an independent accrediting authority for nursing and midwifery education under Australia’s National Registration and Accreditation Scheme. The ANMAC is comprised of representatives and directors from various stakeholder organisations, who are selected based on their skills, knowledge and experience. “The ANMAC is responsible for facilitating the development of content for accreditation standards in consultation with stakeholders and representatives from the professions, the main function of the NMBA is to protect the public by providing guidelines and standard practices required for the profession” (Nursing and Midwifery Board of Australia, 2019). The NMBA is to undertake the functions that are set by the National Health Practitioner Regulation Law, which is enforced in each state and territory. A major role of the NMBA is to develop guidelines which help nurses and midwives abide by the codes of conduct, standards of practice, and codes of ethics required by the profession. The purpose of the guidelines are to provide resources that guides decision-making under supervision, plans and conduct regarding the health matter. To conclude, this will help nurses and midwives in making decisions with regards to registration and notification matters under a supervisory arrangement. In contrast, the ANMAC has an additional role that goes beyond the development of nursing standards. The ANMAC also has the power to assess the qualifications and skills of nurses and midwives that wish to migrate under the Australian Government’s General Skilled Migration Program. The ANMAC is authorised to assess their qualifications by the Department of Immigration and Border Protection. The ANMAC is also responsible for determining whether programs of study for nurses and midwives seeking to practice in Australia meet the required accreditation standards, thus helping to protect the standard of health in Australia.

Finally, ANMAC on the other hand is Australian Nursing &Midwifery Accredita tion Council s the safety of the community by promoting high quality standards for nursing and midwifery education for example ANMAC take the certificate and diploma in nursing.

I am thrilled to have received a candidate application for the National Honor Society; it is an esteemed organization that I have dreamed to be a member of. I believe I possess the four characteristics of the National Honor Society, Scholarship, Leadership, Character and Service. These same qualities are very similar to the honorable virtues of the Air Force for which I aspire to be an Air Force Officer as a Pilot someday.nAs a well-rounded individual, I know I can become a valuable member of NHS.

I am a hard-working student that has consistently been on the honor roll since before High School. I am dedicated to my studies ensuring I achieve academic success. Admittedly, I am not one of those students for which the grades come easy, I need to put extra effort in to ensure good grades. I recognize the importance of being a strong scholar and take whatever steps necessary, including getting help from my teachers. I am grateful for their mentoring, guidance, and teachings which continues to form my intellect.

Other than academics much of my time has been dedicated to the sport of auto racing. Racing is an activity and sport that has built much of my character. For example, pursuit of excellence, risk taking, confidence, self-sufficiency and teamwork. I have been driving a race car since rookie driving school at 9 years old and in 7 years, I have learned a tremendous amount of respect for the sport, the impact it has on community and me as an individual. In addition to building my character I have learned other qualities such as being a role model (i.e. autograph sessions, car shows, sponsorship commitments), engineering techniques (i.e. car setup, weight influence, ins and outs of a motor), public relations/marketing (i.e. management of my Facebook page @samanthamullermotorsports, keeping my fans engaged) , sponsorship responsibilities (i.e. meeting with potential sponsors, events with current sponsors), social awareness (i.e. my on and off track behavior), and even auto repair, I could change a tire faster than a NASCAR pit crew! Auto racing season is a long season, typically from April through November with special shows in other months. Most of my racing career I have been traveling the northeast chasing a championship, which takes motivation and dedication. An example of my racing accomplishments and leadership work is highlighted in last year’s sponsorship request booklet. I prepared this booklet to highlight my racing accomplishments to seek new sponsors. I have enclosed it for your reference. All these skills I mention can be useful not only at the track but at school, extracurricular activities and in my community.

Another focus of mine is obtaining my pilots license. I am currently taking the coursework and private flight lessons so that I can solo private aircraft. This has been an amazing experience and is helping me forge my plan for the future. I’ve been around aviation for the majority of my life, my dad used to let me sit in the co-pilot’s seat when we would go visit my grandparents, I live nextdoor to the local airport, and I even work at that airport now. Having a set goal for my future and constantly working towards it, has improved myself mentally and morally. I have come up with a step by step plan of what I need to accomplish throughout my years in high school and college, inside and outside of school to finally achieve my goal of becoming a pilot in the Air Force and being able to retire as a commercial pilot after I have served.

When I’m not studying, racing or flying I participate in other activities such as cross country, and several different community service activities. I enjoy participating in a school sport though it has been hard given my commitment to racing. Throughout my high school years, I have inconsistently participated in sports but intend on continuing with cross country and track through my senior year. I volunteer for community service when time permits, I’ve always enjoyed helping out within my town or giving back to the school. I do this through volunteering for Millbrook Education Foundation events, with school clubs/fundraisers or serving at church when possible. Volunteering is an area that I would definitely like to dedicate more of my time to and improve upon. In addition to all of my volunteering, I intend on joining the Civil Air Patrol which is community service but it’s supported by the federal government. Therefore, by the beginning of this upcoming summer I will have successfully fulfilled my short term goal of boosting my community service.

In conclusion, I have begun to properly prepare for my exciting future through scholarship, leadership, service, and character at MHS.

I’ve been captivated by learning my whole life – always had a book in my hand, always was curious of the world around me. I’ve strived to do the best that I could and never let obstacles overcome me. Learning and being a knowledgeable person is a part of my identity and a part of myself that I love. Growing up, especially in high school, I recognize that anything worth having comes easy. I have learned how to study, how to ask for help with things I don’t understand, and how to be a better version of myself. In doing these things, I have become a more well-rounded person in the sense that these hurdles have prepared me for the challenges of life.

Although learning has been a huge part of my life, it is not the only part that makes me who I am. Being involved in making the kids’ lives better has brought so much fufillment to my life, and I know that I have brought fulfillment to others’ lives. One of my favorite roles in my community has been at my church where I’m a Peer Minister, which is a volunteer leadership position in the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, or CCD program. While in this position I perform tasks such as greeting and helping out the people before church on Sundays; however, my main role is to assist the Catechist in the lesson for that week, lead the students in prayer, and organize the students’ Retreat Day before they receive their First Communion. Every Sunday, I get the privilege of being with these bright and lively children who are eager to learn about their religion. I have formed meaningful relationships with these kids and have gotten to know their interests, likes, and dislikes. They have made me so grateful that I am able to have this opportunity to make a difference, not only in my church community, but in their lives. I’ve learned that in order to grow, you have to go outside your comfort zone. Despite the fact that I’m a naturally introverted person, I have taken advantage of opportunities to speak in large group settings and ran for student offices. Doing these things has increased my confidence and has helped to prepare me for what lies ahead. I have also done this in my academics when I have had to contact teachers with questions that I have about the lesson or when I need clarification on topics I don’t understand.

It is my hope that I will be accepted into the National Honor Society where I’ll be able to improve my leadership skills, engage in more community service, grow in my character, and excel in my academic career. I will be a great assest to NHS and that I will be able to inspire others in my community. It would be an honor to be chosen to represent my school, community, and all that this club stands for.

I’ve been captivated by learning my whole life – always had a book in my hand, always was curious of the world around me. I’ve strived to do the best that I could and never let obstacles overcome me. Learning and being a knowledgeable person is a part of my identity and a part of myself that I love. Growing up, especially in high school, I recognize that anything worth having comes easy. I have learned how to study, how to ask for help with things I don’t understand, and how to be a better version of myself. In doing these things, I have become a more well-rounded person in the sense that these hurdles have prepared me for the challenges of life.

Although learning has been a huge part of my life, it is not the only part that makes me who I am. Being involved in making the kids’ lives better has brought so much fufillment to my life, and I know that I have brought fulfillment to others’ lives. One of my favorite roles in my community has been at my church where I’m a Peer Minister, which is a volunteer leadership position in the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, or CCD program. While in this position I perform tasks such as greeting and helping out the people before church on Sundays; however, my main role is to assist the Catechist in the lesson for that week, lead the students in prayer, and organize the students’ Retreat Day before they receive their First Communion. Every Sunday, I get the privilege of being with these bright and lively children who are eager to learn about their religion. I have formed meaningful relationships with these kids and have gotten to know their interests, likes, and dislikes. They have made me so grateful that I am able to have this opportunity to make a difference, not only in my church community, but in their lives. I’ve learned that in order to grow, you have to go outside your comfort zone. Despite the fact that I’m a naturally introverted person, I have taken advantage of opportunities to speak in large group settings and ran for student offices. Doing these things has increased my confidence and has helped to prepare me for what lies ahead. I have also done this in my academics when I have had to contact teachers with questions that I have about the lesson or when I need clarification on topics I don’t understand.

It is my hope that I will be accepted into the National Honor Society where I’ll be able to improve my leadership skills, engage in more community service, grow in my character, and excel in my academic career. I will be a great assest to NHS and that I will be able to inspire others in my community. It would be an honor to be chosen to represent my school, community, and all that this club stands for.

My achievements at the academic level are a result of my hard work and effort. Having the ability to be a member of NHS is another step allowing me to achieve success in my future, and increase my chances of becoming a strong leader, giving me the chance to be a powerful role model for other people. By having my GPA of 4.0 all through my freshmen year, and 4.0 after 2 trimesters my sophomore year, I have proven to myself and my teachers that I can be a success and make my dreams come true. One of those dreams is to become a part of the NHS society.

Not only do I study and work hard, I also am active with my school life. I have always had the chance to advance my leadership skills by playing many sports. I have been playing sports since my childhood, giving myself time to grown in those skills. I know that my school is a place where leadership is greatly valued. That allows me to get involved in things, and tend to lead them, like captain of a team or being the student director. As a leader, I get the amazing opportunity to work with a team/group that values my opinions and thoughts to create a plan that everyone agrees with. Some things that a good leader should have that I think that I have are the ability to gain respect and trust from peers, positive attitude, open minded, and being a reliable person. I am constantly ready to help anyone who is needed and have the ability to solve problems. This is all thanks to the experience that I have had in the past.

All of the skills that I have listed above are always useful, not just at school, but also the community, in which I am active member of. Helping out with VBS, and babysitting kids at Parents and Tots are both great examples of me being an active member in my own community, not just my school community. I personally think that as a member of my community that it is my obligation to help and support anyone that might need it, and to be a great example for others.

I conclude that my skills and capabilities will allow me to contribute to my society, and help me reach my full potential by helping others who need it. Serving as proof, my academic achievements show that both my personal aspects and my dedication would help me develop the personality needed to provide help and meet all expectations of the NHS society to my fullest potential.

Hi, I’m Veronica Brinkworth, and I am a proud student of St. Hubert’s! Growing up, I’ve always had an interest and passion for music so I joined the St. Hubert’s Orchestra my freshman year. This was the best choice I’ve ever made. I absolutely enjoy the people, the music, and I love that when we all come together as a group, we can create something really beautiful.

At the moment, I play the string bass in the St. Hubert’s Orchestra and I am teaching myself piano on the side. Besides this, there are so many more instruments that I really want to learn. My parents were astonished when I told them I wanted to learn how to play the drums, harp, guitar, bass guitar, cello, and violin. I understand that may seem like a lot but I am extremely devoted to music and it’s something I really want to do. I also really enjoy theatre and Broadway shows.

This year I decided to join Stage Crew for the play, Cinderella, and it was a wonderful experience. It felt so good to see the play as such a success after the all the hard work we went through. When I’m not doing homework or teaching myself how to play piano, I’m expected to do chores such as washing the dishes, doing the laundry, cleaning the house, etc. I actually tend to like doing these chores because it keeps me busy rather than doing nothing all day.

I like having my time occupied rather than wasted. I want to be a member of National Honor Society because I think it’s an amazing opportunity and I am honored that I was even invited to apply. I think as a member of the National Honor Society I would have to uphold the image of a student of scholarship, service, leadership, and character as I represent the school.

I believe that this is something that I would be able to accomplish as a member of the National Honor Society. Ever since I’ve heard about the National Honor Society as a freshman, I’ve been completely determined to be accepted in as a member.

I recognize that membership in the National Honor Society can be both an honor and an obligation. The students who have a chance to apply for membership, except have good education and behavior, are needed to understand and follow the four qualities, which are scholarship, leadership, service, and character.

To begin with, I understand that scholarship is willing to spend the time needed to acquire and focus my mind on seeking knowledge through diligence and effort. Scholarships can be known as always try my best to do well in everything and achieve the best academic results. The person I think of when talking about the scholarship is the daughter of my host, Lan Vy Ho. To me, she is a person with good academic achievements and a passion for learning. She has a GPA above 3.5 with four years of High School getting A grades and receiving a scholarship from Texas Tech University. She can spend many hours at the library just to find the answer to the problem that she doesn’t understand. Vy Ho always tries her best in everything she does, especially her studies, so she finished half the way to being a doctor according to what she wants to be. As a student, I know I have to be responsible for my studies. Some of the ways I can promote a scholarship at Faith West Academy and the community are know how to organized between homework, tests, and extracurricular activities. I plan my work and follow it so as not to affect my studies and activities. One more thing I can do is communicate and caring for others. I am a friendly person, like to interact with others, I am not afraid to help in my ability if people need me. Lastly, I understand that the rules are in place to follow, I think I’m doing this well now and will in the future.

In the second place, my perspective on leadership is someone who can create a connection between people forming a group, connecting with the personality of the individuals in the group. It cannot be instructed or imposed on. A leader is someone who has an objective perspective from many angles, making the final decision in a smart and fair manner. The leader must create trust with the members and always help as well as support the members to develop their strengths. The person I choose that I think represents this character is my mom. My mom is a restaurant owner, she has to face many problems and give many decisions every day. As a leader, my mother does a great job of managing the restaurant and for connecting with the staff. My mother divided the plans for each person, and always rewarded and penalize fairly. My mother explored the personalities and strengths of the employees to choose the right positions for them. When a conflict occurred, my mother always looked at things from many directions and reached the final conclusion in a fair and reasonable manner. I used to be a vice president and now a language teacher in the community, I understand how important the responsibility of the leader is. I will listen to other people’s opinions and see the problem from many directions. I will be careful and serious at every work. I will communicate graciously and politely in order to convey ideas to people. I do not hesitate to learn new things from people around me and the community.

Thirdly, for me, the service is willing to volunteer to work for the mutual benefit of those in need or need help and for the community without any payback or certification of any kind.

National Honor Junior Society would be a great opportunity for me, as I have exemplified each of the four characteristics listed as qualities of a NJHS member. Leadership is an important quality and I believe that I’ve contemplated that trait. I’m part of an orchestra, where leadership comes as an important trait. Based on my experience in orchestra, I can say that it’s very important to be able to use your leadership aspect. Although I’m not always leading my entire section, smaller things also count. Leadership is based entirely on what the individual musicians do on their own. We must interpret music and signals from the conductor. I’ve led my section in preparing for the upcoming concert.

When evaluating my character, I think that I uphold principles of morality and ethics by demonstrating cooperation, honesty, reliability, courtesy, integrity, concern, and respect for not just myself, but others as well, always. I show these traits to others in my classroom when working on projects with others and in class discussions/activities. When talking or interacting with peers, I’m sincere and respectful.

Service is another significant trait of a NJHS member. I’ve made many contributions to my school and other communities as well. We have an orchestra fundraiser which I’ll participate in to support others in raising money for a school trip to Colorado. Supporting your peers is important and should be done without compensating, and with a positive and enthusiastic spirit.

Citizenship is another good quality that I’ve shown on numerous occasions. I’m aware of the many worldwide problems that we have in the United States, including poverty. I try to do whatever I can to support the homeless and people who don’t have what they need. There are food drives that happened annually at a local organization to support others in need. My mom and I always take the time to drop by. We give canned goods and other essentials to those who don’t have them. Being sensible, I know that not everybody has the same privileges as us.

I want to be a member of NJHS because it could be beneficial to me, build better leadership skills and teamwork capabilities for the future, and hone project management aptitude. I would always apply these traits as much as I could to be a better person for myself, others, and my community, which explains my exemplification of the four characteristics of a NJHS member.

I personally think that United Against Poverty (UP), which serves those in poverty by providing crisis care, transformative education, food, and household subsidy, would be a good local charitable organization to support. We need to raise awareness of the many people in poverty on the streets with barely enough food to survive each day. It’s always important to help solve worldwide problems especially when we have the resources to do it. In NJHS, we could organize food drives and donate what we get to UP.

That is why I’m a qualified and contributive candidate for NJHS.

Scholarship is a commitment to learning. Scholarship means academic study or achievement or learning at a high level. A good scholar is willing to spend lots of time in important reading and study, as they know the lasting benefits of a learned mind. Learning should be lifelong and continuous. Lifelong learning improves our understanding of the world around us and provides us with more opportunities. Going through the process of learning helps to develop valuable life skills, such as time management, organization, and discipline and also enhances reading, writing, and critical thinking skills. In relation to NJHS, this is the academic side of school. The ideal NJHS member should be diligent and careful about their schoolwork and should rise to meet all academic challenges. This pursuit goes far beyond the grades received in school. NJHS students should be curious and strive to see how the world outside of school relates to their schoolwork. Scholarship means always doing the best work possible. Scholarship is about enjoying learning new things, and also having the persistence and passion to understand difficult concepts. Through hard work and academic scholarship, we should strive to become more educated students and future leaders who are more capable of making positive and beneficial changes in our community.

I have many positive character traits that will benefit NJHS such as scholarship, perseverance, and responsibility. Firstly, I consider myself a good example of scholarship because I always strive for excellence. I always aim to be the best in academics. For example, I have taken honors classes in science, math, and english in both 7th and 8th grades and have gotten A grades in all of them. I also aim to take honors and AP classes in high school next year to challenge myself and reach my true potential as a student. I strongly believe that I should give my best in everything that I do, and my dedication to academic achievement will help me contribute to our chapter of NJHS in many ways.

Another positive personal characteristic that I have which would benefit NJHS is perseverance. One example is when I also had to put in much effort and persevere in my algebra class this year. Some of the new concepts that I learned were difficult and required me to put in much time and effort in practicing and reviewing them. I never thought about giving up, as I knew that I had to do my best work. After some determination and focus, I was able to get it done and I did it to the best of my ability. Another example of when I showed perseverance in school was when I did my IRP science fair project this year. Completing an independent research project requires lots of time and study put into solving a real world problem. I put in lots of hard work and created a successful prototype which was able to solve my selected problem. After persevering to make a thorough and concise final product, my commitment and persistence paid off and I received an A+ as my final grade on my science fair project. My third and final character trait that will help NJHS is responsibility. I show responsibility at school and outside school as well. For example, I have taken honors classes in 3 subjects in both 7th and 8th grades. Being an honors student requires responsibility. I have always completed all my assignments and projects on time and with my best effort. I also strive to organize my time well and participate in class. With these positive traits, I look forward to new ways and opportunities to contribute to NJHS. However, I realize that I have some areas of personal growth that I need work as well. Successful personal growth requires the desire to improve and the willingness to strive to make changes. An open mind and the motivation to learn and grow are also important. Some examples of my personal growth would be developing a better growth mindset, managing stress more effectively, making better decisions, improving teamwork skills, embracing change more readily, and improving my time management skills.

One area of personal growth that I chose to expand on in depth is improving my time management skills. Time management is important for several reasons. Having good time management skills will help me prioritize tasks, plan ahead, set aside the time they need for projects and assignments, and make better use of that time. Good time management skills can help keep me on track and reduce stress. There are many clear and specific steps that I can take to achieve my goal of improving my time management. I have created a detailed plan to achieve my goal. At the beginning of the week, I can prioritize my work by making a list of my most important assignments to complete. Becoming skilled at prioritizing responsibilities will also allow me to complete my essential tasks more efficiently. I should also create a schedule that would effectively list each to do item and the amount of time that I need to complete it. Creating a schedule will save time by keeping me from wasting time and it will allow me to give enough time to each subject. Finally, creating a schedule will increase my concentration and will help me to distribute my study time properly for increased learning. Another method that will help me improve my time management is setting a realistic deadline, and then sticking to it. Setting deadlines a few days before the assignment or project is due will help me stay on track and will allow me to pull together a large project with less stress. Setting deadlines also avoids procrastination. By tracking time, it is possible to know how much time is left before the deadline of a specific project. This will help me to schedule my remaining time wisely so that I can make sure to complete all the parts of my project. Setting deadlines can prevent me from leaving assignments to the last minute, which will improve my quality of work and reduce my stress levels. Finally, avoiding multitasking will allow me to manage my time more effectively. Multitasking can decrease productivity. My productivity will improve when I am able to focus on one thing at a time. Spending my time focused on completing one task at a time will also help me reduce the potential for distractions. I will be able to do better quality work when I am able to focus and concentrate on one task.

In conclusion, in this essay I went over the importance of scholarship, my personal positive characteristics and how they benefit NJHS, and how I will improve in one area of personal growth.

When I was a sophomore at Roseville High School, I was specially asked to be in the National Honor Society, however, even if you were chosen you still had to fill out a long application and essay to be accepted in. After 2 weeks of long and hard work to finish the application, I turned it in and hoped I got accepted. The teacher held a meeting for us not long after telling us if we were accepted, I was happily told I was accepted. But sadly, most of my friends weren’t chosen to be in it, or they were just too lazy to fill out the application, besides the few that made it in with me.

In NHS we had to do 24 service hours a trimester, most people made them up, so they wouldn’t get kicked out of the extra-curricular. Even though most did not want to do the actual service hours, I wanted to complete mine, so I decided to sign up to work at a soup kitchen with a few others from NHS as well, most people rejected this because they thought it was dirty and didn’t want to sit there handing out soup for hours. Once the day came, my friend Ashley, whom I’ve been the best of friends with since 6th grade, and I drove to Gleaners Community Food Bank in her car. It was about a 20-minute drive to the drive there wasn’t terrible. Once we got there, they assigned each one of us to a position, they luckily put Ashley and I charge of handling the out food, including mostly canned goods, to each person when they came into the line. It was heart-wrenching to see the number of people that came into Gleaners to get food because they were homeless or had very little money to survive off of. This really put everything into perspective, I have been so ungrateful for the things I had when these people had nothing or to the most barley anything, I at least had a home to go to every night with a fridge and cupboards full of food whereas some of them had nothing. During the time Ashley and I were handing out the cans a lady probably no older than her mid-30s comes up to us, and we had a long conversation. She told me a story I could never forget; she told me that her husband had passed away a few years back and things have been really hard for her. She had 3 children and after she scrapped money together to pay bills (sometimes she didn’t even have enough); she had no money left over for food, so she came to Gleaners to get food that her family could survive off of. This story hit me hard, I could not believe this had happened to her, and the number of things this woman has lived through, and she was still here to support her kids. After 3 hours of helping out at Gleaners, I made some new friends with some workers and customers including this sweet woman I met named Danielle, who volunteered at least once a month because she said, ‘It’s important to give back to our community and those who need a little extra help’. I learned that not everyone is here because of their poor life choices but because someone dealt them the wrong hand in their life.

In the end, it was a very eye-opening experience, and I was grateful to experience helping others in this environment hands-on. The next day I went to school and told my friends about my experience and tried to convince them to come with me the next time I went. Some people would turn me down say it was gross or too dirty of an environment, some even just didn’t feel like ‘wasting their time’ but for me, I was very grateful for the experience and decided to go back a few other times with some of my friends that agreed to come. When we went back to the Gleaners together, they agreed that it was an amazing experience, and it felt great to give back.

After those days at Gleaner’s I learned that it felt amazing to give back to your community and help others in need, I learned not to take things for granted anymore and be nicer to those who give me everything and support me. I’m glad I didn’t just lie about my service hours unlike some others because they thought it was disgusting, or a waste of time. It’s never a waste of time to help someone that really needs it because you never know what could happen and if it was god forbid the other way around, you would want someone to help you out too.

National Honors Society is an organization I would like to be apart of because I would like to gain more leadership and volunteer skills than I already have. National Honors Society can also help me look forward into college and get more insight as to where I want to go in life.

Character traits and personal skills I have that will contribute to the success of National Honors Society vary from having willingness to being a strong leader. I will be able to work with students in National Honors Society or with others who are not involved in the honors society. I can be a leader and work well with others to ensure that any task can be done. My listening and comprehension skills can not only help me but can also help my peers when needed. Problem solving skills are a big part of my life and I can pass those skills onto others who may not have them. Whether it is outside of school or inside of school, I am willing to help anyone with any issue or task. My role in National Honors Society will depend on the task I am given or what I need to accomplish. If I need to be a leader, I can fill that position. As well as being a leader, I can step down and let others take control.

My role in Spring Hill High School, interchanges between being a good student, friend, volunteer, and classmate to others who may not know me. I feel that my role in Spring Hill High School helps my academic performance as well as my companions. I want to portray in a role that will not only enhance my skills but also put off a good impression onto other students. Personal experiences I have such as working at a daycare facility as an assistant teacher, gives me a lot of patience and leadership skills when working with people or situations that are difficult. My academics are very important to me and give me advancements into the college world. I strive to have a 4.0 GPA every year, and even if I do not reach that goal, I am never far from it. I have been involved in manying volunteer projects, such as helping in a homeless shelter kitchen, Kansas State University event, and many more. As well as volunteering in outside events, I am a member of Spring Hill High School Band. I participate as the role of an assistant section leader, I lead the saxophone section when it comes to learning and playing the music, marching, and even when they need help outside of band. I have been a member of the band for six years and plan on continuing my music career later on through life. Each school year I like to step out of my comfort zone and try new things such as, cheerleading my sophomore year, and volunteering my freshman year. This year I am taking upper level classes to challenge myself and also to be able to take classes for college credit next year as a senior.

National Honors Society will be a new and improved step to my path in life. I would like to eventually get more recognition within the school and start stepping up to positions and activities inside and outside of school.

Opportunities come across once in a lifetime and could possibly never happen again. Within High School, many opportunities come and go each and every year sometimes people have to give it there all to get the best out of the opportunities they receive and to get. With National Honor Society is an opportunity that could only come across once in my whole High School Career that I’m going to give it my best to get this opportunity.

Within this opportunity comes great leadership which I can provide for this organization. For a team to develop and get better a leader is needed to guide them show them what’s good and bad. The sports basketball then I’ve played the past 2 years in High School and all my Junior High Career I was always considered one of the leaders. I had many chances to teach teammates the correct way to dribble up the court, the correct play to call out with the current defense the opposing team is playing, and showing them what is the best way to read their defender. With all these opportunities of leadership allows me to teach my teammates a positive attitude and inspire them to create a great environment for the whole team to be around. Even within the FFA, I’ve been to most of the events that are available to the current members, and some of the new members haven’t participated in them. I made myself responsible for them to get decent at the contest, so they can fill great about themselves going into it. Leadership is a great trait, but when Duty calls and it’s time for me to serve I’m the first to the line but have to get academic in the back of my mind.

High School is a time of a student’s life where it’s alright to have fun, but also time to get serious. High School can really depend on my future so if I try my hardest to stay focus and not let my grades slip. High School is a great time to be developing a social life and get along with others. I and hopefully others can say that within work or school I am the funny, hardworking, and genuine guy. My step-grandma has recently received cancer in her chest area and has been little under the weather and my grandfather is a little older so it’s hard for him to help. Every time I’m in town or in her area I’ll try my best to take time out of my day help her with some chores and just keep her company. She loves when I do that and I love seeing her happy just by helping her can change her day. With all these great things has one thing in common all help with serving I would love to help this High School become a better and safer place for the person.

With a leadership and serving comes a student with character. Throughout my years as a human I have really matured I’ve gone from a disrespectful elementary student almost getting expelled to a High School that is responsible, love to laugh, and love to help people. Recently one of my cousins in my family that was feeling really down about himself mostly because of his appearance. I told him exactly, “No one in this world is going to care whether if you have a big nose, small nose, big ears, small ears, one leg, or three legs. Just Be you and you’ll do just fine for yourself”. Ever since then my little buddy has been wearing whatever he wants, when he wants, and not letting anybody stop him. Just being honest with someone and not being a bad influence could change their lives and that honestly changed my character for good. While in the classroom anytime and every time the teacher needed help I would love to help them back in Junior High I had Ms. Breitweiser like five hours a day each and every hour she was doing some kind of work. Every time she was doing work I would love to help collect papers off the printer for her, grade some papers for her, help carry some stuff to or from her car or even help her clean off the table. Without her as a teacher or my little cousin coming to me I wouldn’t be the character I am today.

With this great opportunity of Joining National Honor Society with my leadership, service, character, and academics I find myself a great member of this Organization. I appreciate this wonderful opportunity to be apart of something that could make our school a better place.

It is an honor that I am eligible to apply for National Honor Society. I have been looking toward to be part of National Honor Society since the beginning of my high school year. Being a member of this organization is not a right but a privilege. This prestigious organization does contribute a lot of services to our society such as helping people in need regardless of race, age, financial status, and religions. Thus, I can grow more as a well-rounded person from this boundless experiences. Throughout my high school years, I have shown great qualities of scholarship, service, leadership, and character. I believe my strength of character and leadership are capable to join this prestigious organization.

The character can be distinguished as the combinations of traits and qualities in the morality of an individual person. These valuable qualities are built by oneself throughout the time. Since the beginning of my high school year, I have aimed to be the best in classes with the righteous principles. As the high schoolers, cheating on the tests is not a surprising thing for the teachers even though they are in the advanced classes. However, I always refrain myself from those kinds of situations by simply following my ethics. Once, there were the answer keys for a test was spread throughout our class. Some of my friends offered me to take a look at the test so we can receive a much better grade. I could have memorized those and cheated on that test. However, my subconscious always reminds me that it is not worth it to cheat on the tests. The relationship between my teachers and I was built upon honesty and trust over time. Is it really worth it to break it to get your own temporary success? After this trust is broken, it will require a higher level of time and hard work to rebuild this relationship. Even though it was rebuilt, it will never be as perfect as before. Nonetheless, my conviction of cheating is you are not trusting your abilities and ingenuity enough to do your own. Hence, I looked at the opposite view of this test. I rather get the score that I studied for it then getting a high score with dishonor.

Obtaining an outstanding score on exams and tests is not the only matter that describes an individual character. It is also important that how one performs in the class with faithfulness, punctuality, and rules. Throughout my high school years, the commitment to my classes is in the excellent state. As a prepared student, I always stay on the top of my course materials. Everyday assignments are always completed and having discussions with the teachers about the course materials become my personal challenge in school. Moreover, being punctual for classes places me in a better position with responsibilities and respect for the teachers.

Beside from the school activities, I also show my responsibility as a leader in our community. I was an intern for the Greater Boston Chinese Community Services (Uplift) and a member of Lead n’Serve leadership program for 3 years. It promotes peer and ethical leadership through civic responsibilities, personal empowerment and social transformation. Being in the program, I became more well-rounded with responsibilities and proficient leadership skills. I was a leader along with other peers to assist the elementary and middle school students in education and building the positive characters. I trained new volunteers with explanations and directions about the rules and regulations in the classroom. I was also in charge of planning and preparing art and craft activities for students along with other interns. For this summer, I was responsible to take care of girls’ safety during the field trips and swimming days. I was also in charge of managing and assigning the directions for new volunteers throughout the day.

Due to my righteous abilities and principles as a student, I believe I am capable of being a candidate for National Honor Society. I have strongly shown my character and leadership throughout my high school years. I truly hope I can be a part of this prestigious organization for this year.

The National Honors Society was established to recognize outstanding high school students. It allows you to strengthen your abilities and grow as a person through school and community activities. Having said that, I am extremely honored to be nominated for this organization. The National Honors Society is said to represent four pillars; character, leadership, service, and scholarship. Over the course of the years that I have attended both Glen Este and West Clermont High School, I have displayed several examples of these pillars. Joining NHS would allow me to grow even more as an individual among an elite group of students and present me with numerous opportunities that I would be thrilled to pursue.

I consider myself an exemplary character due to my caring nature, my honorable intentions, and my determination to spread positivity. I go above and beyond to accept others and be a true friend to everyone I meet. I was always taught to ‘treat others the way you would like to be treated’ and I make sure to do nothing short of that. I believe everyone should be treated with respect and kindness no matter who they are or what they look like. I do my best to spread positivity everyday through small actions, because sometimes the smallest things you do can make the biggest impact. I also know that I can handle criticism and setbacks very well. I have had numerous setbacks in my life, but with each one I know I am a stronger and wiser person. The same goes with taking criticism; I know that criticism is valuable and it allows me to learn from my mistakes.

I am a natural leader which is why I fit the leadership pillar perfectly. I have all the qualities of a true leader and pride myself on my leadership skills. I take charge in situations, and get the job done. I don’t allow myself to sit back and let others do all the work in any situation. I take the initiative to go the extra mile in whatever I do. I not only take charge but I make sure to listen to my peers so that everyone is able to have an equal say and contribute to the cause. I know that it is not only my opinion in a group that matters, but everyone’s equally. I take initiative in every aspect of my life, and a current example of that would be the two kittens I recently rescued. I found two stranded two week old kittens in my neighborhood, and I took initiative to bring them back to health. I nursed them and found them a good home. I am a leader in my own life also due to being responsible in accomplishing my own personal tasks like house chores, homework, and my part time job without being apprehended .

I give service in my community through my volunteer work. I may not have the most hours, but I do wish to gain more and expand on my help to the community. I believe that helping those who are not as fortunate as you is key in life. I am fortunate enough to have all the things that are currently in my life. This is why I volunteer at the James Sauls homeless shelter. I do my best to help out those individuals who aren’t as lucky as me. I am also signed up to help at the League for Animal Welfare, and the only reason I don’t have hours there yet is due to attending orientations to learn how to work with the animals. I care deeply about helping others and providing assistance.

The last pillar that I demonstrate is scholarship. I carry out my home responsibilities, a social life, service to my community, and a part time job all while keeping a 3.6 GPA. I have taken advanced classes and have kept my GPA above a 3.5 since freshman year. I take pride and value in my academic achievements, because they ensure a bright future for me.

Leadership literature has not remained the same as over the years it has been developed by various researchers and there has been a strong belief that leadership is something that is modifiable as there is a transformation constantly happening in the way people think over the years. The principal theories appeared throughout the 19th century such as the Great Man Theory, the Trait theory, the Behavioural theory amongst many others. Leadership theories are adjusted due to the changes happening in the world however, it does not mean that any of the theories are completely irrelevant as it is important to apply them within a suitable context. According to Brown et al. (2005), ethical leadership is associated with the behavior, trust, and honesty of the leader. Following the downfall of ENRON, ethical leadership has become a crucial part of organizations as unethical practices have the ability to destroy the culture of an organization.

The study of leadership is complex and vast but also important to practitioners and academics as it helps the practitioners to gain knowledge and expertise through practice and helps the academic gain knowledge and understanding through research. The complexity of leadership can be understood through the words of Bennis and Nanus (1997) who state the following “Leadership is the most studied and least understood concept of any in the social sciences “and by Dan Wren (1994) who stated, “Despite the mountains of literature on leadership, we still know very little… leadership is still much of an art”. However, even though leadership is complex it is also flexible and can be applied in relevant contexts as mentioned above. Ethical leadership is according to Northouse (2016) a structure of guidelines that gives direction to leaders in order to make decisions and analyze what is right or wrong to do. For instance, Kanungo and Mendonka (1996) mentioned that when moral values are corrupted by leaders then the moral health of society is also corrupted. While Derr (2012) highlighted the importance of ethical leadership as without it there is a high chance of chaos happening in organizations which will also likely affect the world.

There are various approaches to ethical leadership such as:

Virtue based ethics
Virtue-based ethics is described according to Oakley (1996) as an act of action that an individual will perform either right or wrong which can only be justified through an example of a “virtuous agent”. The description of a virtuous person would be a person who seeks to do what is right and has positive characteristics such as honesty and fairness and would not fail at practicing these virtues when facing critical situations (Timmons, 2012). This suggests that a person must act based on the right motives for the actions to be right however, it is not enough for one to act with the right motives as it may fail to achieve a high standard of desired results and thus an appropriate motive before the action should be considered (Oakley, 1996). This, therefore, means, if the motives are right then the action will also follow suit. Moreover, Keller (2007) says that it is not enough to act as a virtuous agent but a person should rather focus on becoming the virtuous agent.

There are a number of management and leadership theories, applying them to practical situations can be challenging however certain scenarios lend themselves better to some styles/theories.

One theory that can work in multiple situations is the Leadership Continuum Theory developed by Robert Tannenbaum and Warren Schmidt in 1958. These styles are the Tell, Sell, Consult, Join and Delegate. They recognise that management style is dependent on a number of factors including the experience and seniority of staff, levels of trust, the sort of relationship the manager has with employees, the culture of the organisation, policies and procedures and the managers own personality and ability to change their style.

Tannenbaum and Schmidt further explained that when leaders choose decision-making options they should consider especially three sets of pressures, situational pressures, Inner psychological pressures and Pressure coming from subordinates.

This model provides a linear approach for management and employee involvement that includes an increasing role for employees and a decreasing role for managers in the decision-making process. The theory is that you are able to adapt your style for the factors in your workforce and work.

The Tell style represents top-down, dictatorial decision making with little employee input. This is the manner in which traditional, hierarchical organisations manage employees. Similar to the autocratic style of leadership, the manager makes the decision and tells employees what they are going to do. The Tell style is a useful management style when there isn’t much room for employee input, or used with new employees being trained. Though it is the best choice in certain extreme environments, this leadership method does little to encourage employee creativity and facilitate growth. It also carries with it substantial planning, communication, and oversight costs. This directive leadership style can suit your team when members have little or no experience or in high-risk situations (emergencies) where instructions must be followed. If your situation calls for an authoritative management style, use the path-goal method of leadership. Set (and communicate) clear and immediate goals for your team. Ensure they know exactly how to carry out your instructions – and have all the resources they need. Everyone in your team should understand their roles and responsibilities – and how to handle any obstacles that may arise. Depending on the work environment, you may find this leadership style works well in small doses – and in specifically targeted cases. This is a style that was used recently during the Covid-19 pandemic, with high numbers of staff redeployed or self-isolating and the country in lockdown the model of delivery of our service needed to be adjusted. A decision was made to move to a Hub model of working with small teams of Health Visitors (HVs) working together to cover all the essential work carried out by HVs including safeguarding children and birth visits. This change in the style of working was a top-down decision with very little employee input. It was necessary as a short term measure to continue safe service delivery in an unprecedented pandemic.

In the Sell style of leadership, similar to the persuasive leadership style, the manager has made the decision and then attempts to persuade employees that the decision is correct. The decision is chosen by the manager only but he understands that there will be some amount of resistance from those faced with the decision and therefore makes efforts to persuade them to accept it. The Sell management style is used when employee commitment and support is needed, but the decision is not open to very much employee influence. Employees may be able to influence how the decision is carried out. Recently I have used this style of leadership in the decision to move from GP attached to Geographical working for Health Visitors. This decision has been made as it reduces costs (travelling and time) and ensures that HVs work in communities and areas that they are familiar with. Selling the idea has been a challenge and some degree of persuasion has been needed however, the HV team leads are involved in the planning of the change.

The Consult management style is one in which the manager requests employee input into a decision but retains the authority to make the final decision. The key to using the consult management style successfully is to inform employees that their input is needed, but that the manager will make the final decision. Similarly, with the above scenario, the decision has been made to change the way in which HVs work to save costs and this is non-negotiable however, it has been made clear to the HVs that their input is valued and needed to ensure a smooth transition. If you choose to ask for employee input when making a decision, give them an explanation of the reasoning for your decision when you make it, if there is time. This lets them know that their input was valuable, and whether it influenced the decision or not. It is important that employee input is treated as valuable when asked for. If they are continuously asked for input, but never see it used, they will cease to give constructive input. A recent example of where this style did not really succeed was during discussions about HVs wearing uniforms, traditionally HVs wear their own clothing to work but during the Covid-19 pandemic a number of HVs requested ‘scrubs’. There were a lot of mixed feelings about this subject so it was decided that further consultation was required but that management would make the final decision. Each team leader was asked to consult with their team and inform management of views. This resulted in a large number of emails and phone calls being received by managers on this matter with very polarised views apparent. It was almost impossible to make a decision as there were valid arguments for and against and relatively equal numbers on each viewpoint. Therefore the idea was abandoned (for now). Some staff then felt that their views had not been listened to and resulted in some discontent amongst managers and staff.

In the Join management style, the manager invites employees to join him or her in making the decision. The manager considers his or her voice equal to the employees in the decision-making process. You sit together around the same table and every voice is key in the decision. The Join management style is effective when the manager truly builds agreement and commitment around a decision. The manager must also be willing to keep his or her influence equal to the degree of influence that other employees who provide input exert. The joint management style can be effective when a manager is willing to share authority. Once you use the join management style, you should be aware that your team will come to expect it. This is not necessarily a bad development, as long as you instil the fact that you are the leader and do not need a group session to make decisions. I have tried this once before when I tried to introduce geographical working to one of my teams, the disadvantage (for me) was that the ‘joint’ decision was not to move to this way of working.

Delegation is at the far right of the continuum where the manager turns the decision over to the group. This type of leadership of the Tannenbaum-Schmidt Leadership Continuum model is one of the extreme types of leadership in which the manager gives complete freedom to the team. In this case, the leader is also responsible for all decisions made but he or she encourages the team to identify and solve problems themselves instead of involving the manager. Many times, the manager expects the team to research potential problems and take measures to mitigate risks. This type of leadership many times occurs in the top management of organisations because it enables them to design and execute the strategies of organisations. An example of this style of management is linked to social distancing within the office, staff have been supplied with technology that allows them to agile work. Each team has been tasked with managing social distancing within their office, they must work within the law (2 metres) and Health Board policy and procedures but have been asked to manage this themselves with feedback each month to their Line Manager in terms of who is working office-based/agile working each day etc. The decision making has been given over to the employees as a team that can consider the best way of working for themselves.

The Leadership Continuum Theory believes that as your team members progress in proficiency and competency, you are able to move to different leadership styles depending on the situation and projects. In my experience as a Manager, it is true that your style and approach needs to be reflexive to the situation and the staff that are being managed. Different scenarios require different approaches and whilst this can sometimes be difficult it is essential.

A current ongoing controversy in the world today surrounds the topic of tuition free public college. The topic came to worldwide attention in the 60’s when the tuition-free state universities in the US started making social and legislative changes, which began the era of the student loan crisis. The changes began after WWII, as the GI Bill increased the number of Americans wanting to go to college, and continued into the 1960’s, culminating in Civil Rights and student protests. These events, the new influx of college eligible Americans, and their related demand for education (which outpaced supply and funding), led to the end of free-tuition state universities, the start of universities as a for-profit business, and the start of the student loan crisis under the Johnson and Nixon administrations. Johnson’s arguably well-intentioned legislation created a huge influx of college eligible Americans. Instead of continuing the tradition of tuition-free public colleges by increasing tax funding to meet these demands, states began reducing the per-student funding across the board, and state schools began charging tuition for the first time since the Morrill Land-Grand Act. (Sanchez) The topic comes up again when Obama unveils the America’s College Promise proposal to make two years of community college free for responsible students, letting students earn the first half of a bachelor’s degree and earn skills needed in the workforce at no cost. (Bumphus) Proponents of tuition-free college argue it will decrease student debt, benefit the economy and society, and give everyone the opportunity to the college education they deserve; while opponents argue, strained state budgets, a decrease in graduate rates, and financially illiterate students. A simple compromise to this ongoing controversy is to make two years of college as free and universal as high school, building on state and local college programs, and expanding Pell grants to make student debt more manageable.

Proponents for tuition-free college argue it will help decrease crippling student debt. Student loan debt—at almost $1.4 trillion in outstanding federal loans—has ballooned into the largest source of consumer debt after housing. “An increase in student debt alone should not sound alarm bells, but debt which cannot be repaid should—and the evidence suggests more borrowers with large balances will not repay their debt anytime soon” (GovTrack) This will create major hardships not just for borrowers who suffer serious financial penalties for failure to repay, but for the taxpayers left with the bill. The student debt will not completely disappear, it will just substantially lower.. About 2 in 3 members of the class of 2018 graduated a little deeper in debt than the classes before them. Last year’s graduates with a bachelor’s degree averaged about $29,200 in student loan debt – a record in the USA.

Proponents of free tuition argue the US economy and society have benefited from tuition-free college in the past. “Creating a clear path to the middle class and ensuring our nation’s economic prosperity means opening the doors of higher education to more Americans.” (U.S. Department of Education) In the 1940’s to the 1970’s and even some colleges in the 1980’s, students postsecondary education was free. In these eras the nation’s economy boomed because they were not burdened with college debt. When President Franklin Roosevelt signed the GI Bill in 1944 and President Eisenhower signed the National Defense Student Loan legislation in 1958, millions of veterans, women, and minorities came to college because they could afford it and knew their education beyond high school would make a significant difference in their future livelihood. They bought cars, took out home loans, worked hard, and advanced in their careers. trust in one another and key institutions, as well as civic habits of volunteering, voting and charitable giving, were also on the rise among this Greatest Generation. (Transcript of Morrill Act)

Proponents of tuition free college argue everyone deserves the opportunity to get a college education. “The Obama administration is committed to restoring our world leadership in college completion and ensuring every student has access to an affordable and high-quality postsecondary education.” (U.S. Department of Education) We must also recognize the “college for all” goal cannot be narrowly defined to a four-year degree. Rather, postsecondary education can also lead to certificates and open doors to thousands of well-paying jobs, including engine-maintenance technicians, plumbers, electricians, dental hygienists, and radiologic technicians will move them and our economy forward.

Opponents of tuition free college know schools might have to create wait lists or expand the ones they already have. State budgets could become strained, which might lead to cuts are decreased access to the programs students want to take. Free college is not really free — someone has to pay for it. “Eliminating tuition at all public colleges and universities would cost at least $79 billion a year, according to the most recent Department of Education data, and taxpayers would need to foot the bill.” (U.S. Department of Education) Either more money would have to be given to the schools, or they would have to create waitlists. This means the taxes for education-related purposes might go up, or funding for something else might be diverted to pay the influx of fees.

The opposition argues with tuition free college graduation numbers might drop, those who do graduate might not be as well prepared for their occupation due to students taking college less serious because they do not have to pay. (Sanchez) We find countries with higher proportions of college graduates tend to be countries with higher college costs for students. Japan, Canada, the US, and Britain are all among the most expensive countries in terms of net cost. Yet, these countries all have higher incidence of college completion among residents. “We could end up making college worse by making it free. This might not even produce more college graduates: Spending cuts at public institutions tend to result in lower graduation rates.”

The opposition argues students might not learn to become as financially literate or independent as they should be, choosing to stay dependent on government programs whenever possible. If students grow up having poor management skills when it comes to money because of these aspects, they will have no one else to blame other than those who supported this proposition. “The heightened priority given to financial literacy is largely driven by students’ increasing use of debt to finance college, and a perception they lack the skills and knowledge needed to make these financial decisions.” (GovTrack) This information was researched based on those currently in college and paying off their tuition debts. If this can be said for current students than those who will be going into college with free tuition will be even more financially illiterate than those already in college.

There are upsides and downsides to this controversial topic, both of which have decent points. Tuition-free college may be beneficial to the economy in the long run, but it will take time for it to get there. Graduation numbers may drop and wait lists may expand. Debt from student loans will decrease and everyone will get a fair shot at the education they deserve. With all of this said a suggestable compromise is to make two years of college as free and universal as high school, building on state and local college programs, and expanding Pell grants to make student debt more manageable.

The first step is to make two years of college as free and universal as high school. This idea stems from Obama’s America’s College Promise proposal to make two years of community college free for responsible students to earn critical workforce skills and the first half of a bachelor’s degree at no cost. These Promise programs are state and locally funded, all are intended to encourage students in achieving their goals. They also provide critical training programs that are job specific. Funding America’s College Promise will provide $61 billion over the next decade to make two years of community college free for responsible students. This allows them to earn the first half of a bachelor’s degree or an associate degree at no cost. (U.S. Department of Education) Tennessee and the City of Chicago initiated free community college programs. The scholarship is coupled with college counseling, mentorship, and community service. (Fact Sheet) A further step is to expand Pell grants making student debt more manageable. The number of Pell Grant recipients will expand over time, providing college access to millions of additional low-income and middle-class students across the country. This compromise helps decrease crippling debt by making the first two years of college free, therefore easier to manage and achieve goals. From free tuition comes economy and society benefits in educating more students. The suggested compromise also allows everyone the opportunity to get an education.

The compromise suggested will satisfy the arguments of the proponents because although the tuition is not free for a four year college, after two years of free college this proposal makes the rest of your college financially manageable. This satisfies the proponents first argument, which is helping decrease student debt, by making the first two years of school free. This means the students are spending less money to achieve a four year college goal. The proponents also argue that the economy and society benefit from tuition free college. I believe this is proposed in the compromise because students will still be financially literate and independent because housing and other college needs will still need to be covered on their end. With free tuition only being for the first two years, this should not negatively affect waitlists. Two years of free tuition would actually increase graduation rates instead of dropping them. If after two years they want to further their education than other financial steps would need to be taken. The proponents of tuition free college also argue that everyone deserves the opportunity to have a college education. Making the first two years of college as universal as a high school will give those who might not have had the opportunity to try college before realizing it is not something they want to pursue. This means no money is being wasted and everyone gets an equal shot at free education.

The opponents argue that tuition free colleges will have to expand waitlists and strain state budgets. I believe the compromise satisfies this need because the tuition is only free for the first two years and housing and other necessities will still have to be paid for. Opposition argues that graduation numbers might drop, but with students getting the opportunity to try out college not every one of them will want to continue after the two years are up. This would increase graduation rates for those who decide to stick with it. Lastly, the opponents argue that because of tuition free college students might not learn how to be financially literate or as independent as they should be. The compromise suggests that they still pay for other aspects of their schooling, therefore still learning how to financially balance their needs.

College is one of the greatest drives of socioeconomic mobility in America, but if we do not try to keep it within reach of lower class families, it could have a negative effect—serving as a barrier, instead of as a ticket to the American Dream. Every hard-working student deserves a real shot to earn an affordable degree or credential which offers them a path to civic engagement, economic security, and success. Despite the Administration’s actions and the leadership of innovative institutions, much work remains to meet our goal of once again having the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. The Administration says they will continue to act within its power to improve college access, affordability, and completion. (Fact Sheet)

According to Nelson Mandela, “education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world.” College learning is a fundamental national policy of every country in the world, but the cost associated with earning university credentials is debilitating. Education provides opportunities for citizens to improve their quality of life, fulfill their dreams of having careers, and be responsible people in society. A reputable college degree gives students the leadership skills that they require to proceed in the direction they want in life. Higher learning helps people become more self-confident, provides economic stability and security and makes one a great contributor to society. Additionally, higher learning gives people the knowledge and the power to change the world. If it were made free, more students would enroll in higher institutions and gain insight into how they can impact the world for the better. The debate about whether post-secondary education should be free seems to be intensifying each year. A college education is among the most expensive level of learning. Due to the rising cost of college tuition, affordable university education for all would be appealing to everyone and encourage more citizens to enroll. It would also allow students the freedom to choose their major and they would no longer be crushed by huge amounts of debts that slow down students’ ability to attain their overall career goals. However, some people would oppose free college education as impractical arguing that passing this proposition would increase tax charges even in the middle-class level because the money to fund education has to come from somewhere. Additionally, opponents of free education believe that it would lead to a decline in the economic growth of a country. They argue that enrolling more people in higher education institutions could reduce the value of degrees offered leading to a higher number of unproductive workers depending on their qualifications. In addition, students might be unfocused in their education if it is offered freely which may cause reduced productivity in the labor market. In my opinion, college education should be made available to everyone and not just to a chosen few because first, it is a right, not a privilege and secondly because of its numerous benefits both to the individual and to a country and its economy.

In several International conventions, education is a basic human right. This implies that the right to learning is legally guaranteed for everyone without any discrimination. The government has an obligation to make college education affordable to all its citizens. It should, therefore, apply appropriate techniques towards the full execution of the fundamental right to education to the utmost of its available resources. Plans to establish a “free college” system should be well laid out and specific, acknowledge the relationship between accessibility and degree finalization. If not, these plans are likely, to under-perform, or to make matters worse. An effective free college education plan should be determined by five key components. First, the plan should contain measures to improve higher learning readiness throughout high school. Secondly, the scheme should cover both two-year and four-year public universities. Thirdly, the plan should include extra costs beyond tuition, such as food or accommodation. The fourth component requires the plan to make efforts to reduce dropout rates and time of degree completion. Lastly, a free education scheme should accommodate people of all income levels. Many learners drop out due to lack of tuition fees. For example, according to research done by Bob Samuels, only 30% of Americans enrolled in a college end up graduating. This is because students are sometimes forced to work while in school to raise money for their tuition fees and upkeep. Juggling between school and work leads to poor performance among degree seekers and most of them do not qualify to graduate (Samuels 1). Additionally, too much outside work commute greatly lowers overall academic achievement. Statistics show that learners who attend university on a regular part-time basis are more likely to drop out than their counterparts who attend full-time. Opponents of tuition-free higher education would argue that this proposition would simply be very costly for governments to finance long-term. This would then impose a financial burden on taxpayers which would, in turn, negatively impact the economy as people might spend or invest less. However, with proper planning and execution, the state leadership would be able to provide free education without overtaxing its citizens. The government should pay greater attention to the protection of the right to education and invest more money in a free college education plan that supports all students in higher learning institutions.

A fundamental benefit of free college education is that it will minimize the rising cost of higher learning and translate into decreased student debt. Statistics reveal that “the average cost of higher learning in the US increases at twice the rate of inflation” (Ulbrich, et al. 1). Tuition cost increases twofold every nine years. This leads to outrageous student loans in many colleges that weigh down the lives of many learners slowing their ability to get married, bear children or buy a home. “The crisis of student debt has become a focal point of research and analysis by government agencies, nonprofit organizations, economists, and the learners who borrow the loans” (Ulbrich, et al. 1). High amounts of student loans may negatively impact their vocational choice, reduce their general well-being, inhibit them from giving back to their society, and detain development in attaining other financial goals like saving for their future (Ulbrich, et al. 1). Rising student debts are associated with illnesses such as depression, and emotional drain. An increase in tuition fees in higher education has contributed largely to a significant rise in student indebtedness (Brugel & Johnson 65). “The cause of this malady is the state funding cuts to higher education institutions, which leads to an increased cost burden placed on the borrower” (Ulbrich, et al. 1). These loans take a long time to repay lowering the quality of life for graduates. Opponents to this proposition may argue that, with free education, students might face challenges in handling their finances. Their argument would be that college life teaches students a lot and offers them a few experiences such as handling money matters, building a budget and saving money. While this is true, it should not stop free education from being implemented since students can be taught financial experiences and gain exposure from workplaces. Higher education should, therefore, be affordable to everyone with the desire irrespective of their financial status. Schools and colleges should work on minimizing tuition increases and offer student scholarships. Tuition-free education will ensure that students do not have to typically work extra hours to achieve their educational goals or take on huge loans which slow their life-long development.

Achieving the “college for all” goal would act as a stimulus for the economy and improve people’s social lives. Undoubtedly, education has monetary value to society and individuals. An educated person has an increased earning power than one without education. Research shows that when treated as an investment, education is highly profitable in providing people with much greater opportunities in terms of learning (Witmer 512). Providing free college education would produce more workers who are productive in new fields such as science and technology. According to research, a nation is more productive when the number of educated employees is large, since they can finish tasks that demand educational and critical thinking skills more effectively. In nations where majority of the people go to college and graduate, there is rapid economic growth than in countries with less graduates. Therefore, ensuring that higher education is free would lead to increased economic development. In this respect, learning is seen as an investment in human resource. Providing learning opportunities for many people would ensure that businesses have more employees with the intellectual ability to create quality products and services. A country can only achieve its sustainable development goals if it substantially invests in human resources. Education equips students with many social benefits, enriches their understanding of themselves and the world, and improves businesses and technological developments. Furthermore, learning secures economic and social growth and improves income dissemination. Quantitative expansion of educational opportunities as well as its qualitative improvement when incorporated in to the labor force forms the basis for economic progress. A nation cannot experience national development unless it develops the skills and knowledge of its people. Opponents of free education would argue that the most successful countries like the U.S and Japan are proof that free university education is not fundamental for national development. Additionally, they may feel that free higher education college would not be enough to affect great changes in social adaptability that are required throughout the world. Nevertheless, even in the most developed countries, quite a number of citizens do not have access to higher education. The free college will ensure that such people are not left out and will improve their ability to contribute to society. By eradicating student debts, graduates would have more money to spend elevating their country’s economy. Free education will lead to more entrepreneurial skills and technological advancements which are beneficial in ensuring individual success and social-economic progression.

When suitably modified, free college education will play a vital role in agricultural and rural development. In most developing countries, rural settlers lack the necessary financial requirements to further their education. Additionally, in these nations, a large number of the population lives in rural areas. This means that their contribution to the national economic development is usually limited. Access to a free higher learning will impart knowledge and skills in rural citizens while assisting them in to make better choices about farming. Additionally, free education in rural areas will ensure that people do not misinterpret information. The various forms of education that can be used to promote rapid rural and agricultural development include the following: A general education which equips people with an understanding of basic science and their surroundings. Education on family development provides learners with the knowledge, skills, and attitudes that they can apply to enhance their quality of life. Community development education is designed to enhance the dynamics of rural organizations and operations so that rural communities may experience growth. Occupational education teaches and trains students to undertake different agricultural projects efficiently and equips them with knowledge concerning the various occupations in agriculture. Education for all will significantly affect the development of employment opportunities and pave way for accessibility of qualified manpower, improved transport system, and immediate markets which are key factors in ensuring rural progression. The benefits of higher learning in rural areas include gaining the knowledge to analyze policies, government plans, rights, and duties. Free college education will provide employment and income opportunities for rural residents and thus improve standards of living. Additionally, it will help communities to gain effective and efficient leadership skills such as confidence, knowledge, and experience. Education is an important aspect of enhancing growth in rural areas more so in the communities living in these places.

Education improves the overall health, nutrition and sanitation of a people. A free higher education produces more healthy and happy people. It motivates people to enhance social engagement which is a key component in creating more secure, united and healthier communities (Furnee, et al. 417). At a private level, education will provide social attitudes that can better help citizens to easily acquire and apply information and services to elevate their own standards of living and those of their families. According to studies conducted over the years, people with little to no education are more prone to premature deaths and suffer from poor health than the more educated people. The learning aspect drives people to understand themselves and the world better, while improving their quality of life. For example, better job opportunities provide health-promoting services such as health insurance which improves longevity and the living standards of a country’s citizens. Consequently, good education provides people with access to health resources such as nutritious food. An educated community enhances low levels of crime rates and increases the sense of social welfare. Research shows that increased academic achievement “improves health directly but also indirectly through work, economic conditions, social-psychological resources, and healthy lifestyle” (Furnee, et al. 417). Critics of free college education would argue that passing this proposition will cause more harm than good. Not only will the value of college degrees decline, but also, the programs available to students will become limited. However, the product and personal attributes of education are both critical components of an individual’s health and a determinant of other factors of their simultaneous and future wellbeing (Hahn and Truman 2). Providing free college education will ensure that more people are healthier and hence lead to the overall wellbeing of the general society.

Free higher public education is a fundamental basic right that has numerous benefits to individual learners and to a country’s economic development and progression. University education is costly and the procedure of requesting for and acquiring financial help is tedious as well as demanding. Many people would love to see their children enrolled for higher learning, but are greatly worried its affordability. Free college education will encourage more students to enroll and increase graduation rates. Today, most career fields are information-based and require professional expertise. In the near future, more and more job opportunities will require a certain level of post-secondary education. Hence, manpower that is more educated will fill any market gaps and propel America’s economy forward. A free college education will pave the way for many to succeed in their personal lives and propel their societies forward. In addition, “college for all” will boost the economic status of a country. Due to its affordability, many people will access higher education which would make a big impact on their lives. Graduates will be able to buy homes, cars, and advance in their careers. Additionally, more graduates would possess credentials sought after by employers and hence qualify for better paying jobs. As a result, people will have more money to spend which will in turn improve the economic status of a nation. It would also increase extra tax revenues collected by the government which would play a vital role towards funding free college education. Lack of burdensome student debts will motivate people to volunteer more and give back to their societies and country. Affordable education will also encourage a person to work hard and harness their skills and talents promoting sustainable economic development. A country’s investment in free post secondary education will yield significant revenue propelling the nation forward.

College education has become a requirement in today’s society. And with a free college education, students would have time to educate themselves. The article entitled “should be free” states that “free college tuition should be given to students because it will assist students to concentrate on their studies” (Dynarski). They wouldn’t have to worry about their financial situation or other issues regarding their personal education. College education should be free because it decreases the student debt, allows more students to attend college and it will increase the educated population in the society.

College education should be free for every student to follow and achieve their career passion. With a free college education, it would decrease the gap between rich and poor student. As poorer students would have equal and more opportunities to learn. Many states have developed free tuition programs for families with financial problems. According to the article entitled, “should college be free” exclaimed that, “free college education helps more members of racial and ethnic minorities to attend” (Dynarski). It helps them choose the major they want to learn and achieve their college education free of charge. There are a lot of jobs requiring a college degree and it made harder for those without higher education. “The economy also benefits from free education because It increases the pool of highly educated laborers” (Dynarski). It would expand higher educational benefits such as jobs and higher pay for the workers. Making college education free reduces the amount of student debt being carried over time.

Making college education free would allow a lot of students to focus on their education and their careers. It could also cost less on the current spending and could save millions in loan debt and grants. According to the article, “Make Public College Tuition-Free” (MPCTF), states that, “making college tuition-free would cost less than what we already spend on the patchwork of financial aid programs we currently support” (Bryant). Free college education might give a lot of people the chance to learn and give equal opportunities to students who can’t afford a college education. Many institutions are offering some form of free tuition and they trying to bring in more talented students with low income.

College education has become much more necessary than it was before to fill today’s role. It will boost the economy and produce a better-educated workforce to American economic growth and at the same time increase tax revenue. Additionally, if more people get more good jobs, it would reduce other forms of public assistance. With a free college education, the students’ debts would decrease as a lot of people are stressed over. However, a young woman said in the article entitled, “Students Call for a Debt-Free College” “Between my boyfriend and me, we’ll have $50,000 in debt,’ she said. ‘It’s like this looming problem over our heads, how are we going to afford this?” (Erickson). This explains that a lot of people are in their college debt. and how much they had to pay on their own. People get stuck in their college debt for the rest of their lives. According to the article “Free Higher Education is a Human Right” “the total student debt outstanding in this country is now $1.225 trillion. What’s more, that figure has risen by nearly $400 billion over the last four years, or nearly $100 billion a year” (Eskow). That means that every year the student debt crisis increases dramatically and will increase unless something is done about it.

Obviously, college education is expensive and it is not a right for everyone to experience college because free college education would increase the taxes. Making college education free will left a lot of students with burdens of high student fees. The article entitled, “Free higher education is a right” says “America’s colleges and universities are quietly shifting the burden of their big tuition increases onto low-income students, while many higher-income families are seeing their college costs rise more slowly, or even fall” (Eskow). This article explains that college education should be free to every student regardless of their race, background information, and their financials.

Subsidizing college tuition to zero has its own effects. With a free college education, people won’t value it. Getting a college education is a huge privilege that a student has to earn. In the article, “should college be free”, stated that, “students in the public school system will take free education for granted as though it were given.” (Dynarski). Some students might not want to go to college because they aren’t paying for anything and that it doesn’t value their time and money. The college institutions would need money to manage their financial problems and other school supplies. But with a free college education, there will be a more educated population and that would have economic and social benefits for the country.

College education should be free because of more people attending college, a more educated population and fewer student loans. It would give poor students the chance to learn and experience college. With a free college education, there will social and economic benefits fro the country. Students would be free to follow their passions and abilities. Some students won’t value-free education. Colleges would also need money to manage their financial problems. But free education began with pre-school and kindergarten and everyone deserves the opportunity to get free higher education.

In the United States, the expansion of an individual’s education is highly significant for those who have the option. There are many benefits to having a college education. Many people go to college to be able to find a better paying job or because they want a better life for themselves.

Many people go to college throughout the country to attain a better education after high school. Most times, the economic return of going to college will highly outweigh the cost. In 2007, the U.S. Census Bureau stated that college graduates earn, on average, about $55,000 per year. This can be compared to $30,000 or less on average for individuals who have only received a high school diploma or the equivalent (Cunningham, 2009.)

Not only do the individuals who have gone to college benefit from their education, but most of our society does too. Those who have a college degree tend to rely less on government programs, pay more taxes on their higher incomes, are healthier, are less likely to be incarcerated and are more likely to be involved with civic engagement (Brand, 2010.)

Along with earning a higher income, those with a post-secondary education are found to have more free time, a greater life expectancy, and healthier children. Those who seek better jobs are usually found to have health insurance that is provided by their employer. Most will also receive more benefits towards retirement than workers without a college education. Most are in great health because they have better access to preventative health care. This reduces public spending, which lowers the cost of government funded programs (Cunningham. 2009.)

Many college students are prone to engage themselves in bettering the community through civic engagement. This will carry with them even after graduation. Both private and public colleges aim to include civic education in their missions. One of the greatest goals they carry for their students is being able to offer a very broad education due to the ever-changing international world (Abel, 2014.)

In 2004, 36 percent of individuals who are 25 years old or older that have attained a bachelor’s degree have engaged in volunteer work. This can be compared to 21 percent of people who have only received a high school diploma to have engaged in volunteering. With the rapid change in technology and the way the framework of our society has changed in recent years, higher education is now needed to keep on producing civically engaged individuals (Cunningham, 2009.)

There are many other positive outcomes of a college education. College graduates are more likely to gain motivation to be involved with activities that influence society. They will engage themselves in more intellectual conversations and have a broader range of academic skills. They also find that they have the resources to lead a more engaged and productive lifestyle (Brand, 2010.)

A lot of individuals who are interested in pursuing college are also looking to have a better future for themselves. They might also be thinking of the future of their family, even if they have not already started one. Children who come from parents who have received a college degree are more likely to go to earn a college degree as well. They will also do better socially and economically in their own lives (Brand, 2010.)

College graduates are also more likely to find a job that they feel satisfied in. Most of us will spend our lives working 40 hours or more a week, so finding a job that we find enjoyable, even in the slightest, is very important. Individuals who have earned a college degree can find higher paying jobs with more advanced placements (Cunningham, 2009.)

With a college degree, one will also find better job stability. When employers need to cut jobs, they normally will cut jobs that are towards the bottom of the line (Brand, 2010.) The rate of unemployment among college graduates is much lower than individuals with only high school diplomas (Lambermont, 2018.)

With all of this in mind, there are also great outcomes for those who do not receive a traditional college education. Starting at a young age, children are constantly having the idea of going to college being drilled into their heads. Teachers, parents, and other political figures are responsible for telling these children that college is the only guaranteed pathway to success (Lambermont, 2018.)

After high school, 70 percent of students will move onto a four-year college, but one third of students will not graduate. Earning a college degree has its benefits like earning a higher salary or getting a better job that you feel successful at. However, there are some disadvantages to following the path to a college education (Sokatch, 2006.)

Many students must work in order to go to college. They also must pay for other things like bills, groceries, and other expenses. An average student spends about four years to complete their degree. This involves difficult course loads that require students to do many hours’ worth of assignments for each class. This means that there is very little time left for a student to do things like externships, internships, and job experience in the field that they are interested in (Abel, 2014.) A lot of employers look for job experience while hiring new employees. Being fresh out of college with no job experience sometimes means that a college degree does not ensure a graduate to have job security right away (Mian, 2017.)

Since 1978, the price of tuition has gone up by 1,100 percent. Because of this, school can become a terrible investment for some students because the rising cost makes school harder to afford. Since a lot of college degrees do not promise job security, it can be hard to find work. When it becomes hard to find a good paying job, individuals find themselves sitting on top of a huge amount of student debt or bills they can no longer afford (Sokatch, 2006.)

Since 2015, the enrollment of college students has risen by 15%. It is great that so many students want to endure themselves in a greater education, but sometimes a higher education is not for everyone. Some graduates do not come out of school with the right characteristics for a job in the field that they chose. This means that there are many jobs in the workforce that are left empty for long periods of time. Along with this, some jobs have so many applicants that graduates who apply for them may be passed over by someone who has had more experience (Lambermont, 2018.)

For many well-paying jobs, a four-year college may not be as important. The time that many people spend on earning their college degree could be someone else’s way of spending time getting experience in the work force. There are many technical colleges and trade schools that are willing to teach you how to do certain jobs such as beauty and cosmetology, plumbers, electricians, hospitality, and many other careers (Wyman, 2016.)

These are jobs that are constantly lacking applicants. Over 70% of contractors are struggling to find workers to fill jobs, even though the rate of construction is constantly on the rise. Attending a trade school is less time consuming and more cost effective. For a technical school, the tuition is about $3,400 per year versus $32,000 per year at a four-year school. Trade school is a great way for students to set themselves up for job security right off the bat. With college, many careers cannot say the same (Wyman, 2016.)

Many high schools in the United States have begun offering classes that allow students to get a taste of jobs they can get into right away after they graduate from high school. Classes such as mechanics class, tech ed, and some schools even offer apprenticeships where students can learn hands on what some jobs are like. This opens a variety of options for life after high school that does not have to do with traditional schooling (Mian, 2017.)

In a lot of areas of the United States, many schools do not prepare their students for a higher education. If students are unprepared, they will not find the need to enroll into a college or university. Some students do still enroll, but they do not last long. If a student has no desire to go to school, it will show up in their grades. When a student does not pass school, they will likely drop out which leaves them in tons of debt from school they never finished. Some students will go to school and feel like it is a waste of time (Mian, 2017.) Students who feel like they pay too much for too little may not go to school either. Those who feel this way see school as unnecessary since they can go into the workforce right away without wasting their money. Instead, they invest their time into a job right away (Lambermont, 2018.)

Finally, it may be concluded that college is a very important part of life. This does not mean that everyone is meant to go to college after high school. Everyone is discovering their own pathways to success. Some people go to school right away, later in life, or not at all. What matters is that we find something that we enjoy and pursue it.

They covered the precious mahogany coffin with a brown amalgam of rocks, decomposed organisms, and weeds. It was my turn to take the shovel, but I felt too ashamed to dutifully send her off when I had not properly said goodbye. I refused to throw dirt on her. I refused to let go of my grandmother, to accept a death I had not seen coming, to believe that an illness could not only interrupt, but steal a beloved life.

When my parents finally revealed to me that my grandmother had been battling liver cancer, I was twelve and I was angry--mostly with myself. They had wanted to protect me--only six years old at the time--from the complex and morose concept of death. However, when the end inevitably arrived, I wasn’t trying to comprehend what dying was; I was trying to understand how I had been able to abandon my sick grandmother in favor of playing with friends and watching TV. Hurt that my parents had deceived me and resentful of my own oblivion, I committed myself to preventing such blindness from resurfacing.

I became desperately devoted to my education because I saw knowledge as the key to freeing myself from the chains of ignorance. While learning about cancer in school I promised myself that I would memorize every fact and absorb every detail in textbooks and online medical journals. And as I began to consider my future, I realized that what I learned in school would allow me to silence that which had silenced my grandmother. However, I was focused not with learning itself, but with good grades and high test scores. I started to believe that academic perfection would be the only way to redeem myself in her eyes--to make up for what I had not done as a granddaughter.

However, a simple walk on a hiking trail behind my house made me open my own eyes to the truth. Over the years, everything--even honoring my grandmother--had become second to school and grades. As my shoes humbly tapped against the Earth, the towering trees blackened by the forest fire a few years ago, the faintly colorful pebbles embedded in the sidewalk, and the wispy white clouds hanging in the sky reminded me of my small though nonetheless significant part in a larger whole that is humankind and this Earth. Before I could resolve my guilt, I had to broaden my perspective of the world as well as my responsibilities to my fellow humans.

Volunteering at a cancer treatment center has helped me discover my path. When I see patients trapped in not only the hospital but also a moment in time by their diseases, I talk to them. For six hours a day, three times a week, Ivana is surrounded by IV stands, empty walls, and busy nurses that quietly yet constantly remind her of her breast cancer. Her face is pale and tired, yet kind--not unlike my grandmother’s. I need only to smile and say hello to see her brighten up as life returns to her face. Upon our first meeting, she opened up about her two sons, her hometown, and her knitting group--no mention of her disease. Without even standing up, the three of us—Ivana, me, and my grandmother--had taken a walk together.

Cancer, as powerful and invincible as it may seem, is a mere fraction of a person’s life. It’s easy to forget when one’s mind and body are so weak and vulnerable. I want to be there as an oncologist to remind them to take a walk once in a while, to remember that there’s so much more to life than a disease. While I physically treat their cancer, I want to lend patients emotional support and mental strength to escape the interruption and continue living. Through my work, I can accept the shovel without burying my grandmother’s memory.

My laptop is like a passport. It is plastered with stickers all over the outside, inside, and bottom. Each sticker is a stamp, representing a place I've been, a passion I've pursued, or community I've belonged to. These stickers make for an untraditional first impression at a meeting or presentation, but it's one I'm proud of. Let me take you on a quick tour:

"We < 3 Design," bottom left corner. Art has been a constant for me for as long as I can remember. Today my primary engagement with art is through design. I've spent entire weekends designing websites and social media graphics for my companies. Design means more to me than just branding and marketing; it gives me the opportunity to experiment with texture, perspective, and contrast, helping me refine my professional style.

"Common Threads," bottom right corner. A rectangular black and red sticker displaying the theme of the 2017 TEDxYouth@Austin event. For years I've been interested in the street artists and musicians in downtown Austin who are so unapologetically themselves. As a result, I've become more open-minded and appreciative of unconventional lifestyles. TED gives me the opportunity to help other youth understand new perspectives, by exposing them to the diversity of Austin where culture is created, not just consumed.

Poop emoji, middle right. My 13-year-old brother often sends his messages with the poop emoji 'echo effect,' so whenever I open a new message from him, hundreds of poops elegantly cascade across my screen. He brings out my goofy side, but also helps me think rationally when I am overwhelmed. We don't have the typical "I hate you, don't talk to me" siblinghood (although occasionally it would be nice to get away from him); we're each other's best friends. Or at least he's mine.

"Lol ur not Harry Styles," upper left corner. Bought in seventh grade and transferred from my old laptop, this sticker is torn but persevering with layers of tape. Despite conveying my fangirl-y infatuation with Harry Styles' boyband, One Direction, for me Styles embodies an artist-activist who uses his privilege for the betterment of society. As a $42K donor to the Time's Up Legal Defense Fund, a hair donor to the Little Princess Trust, and promoter of LGBTQ+ equality, he has motivated me to be a more public activist instead of internalizing my beliefs.

"Catapult," middle right. This is the logo of a startup incubator where I launched my first company, Threading Twine. I learned that business can provide others access to fundamental human needs, such as economic empowerment of minorities and education. In my career, I hope to be a corporate advocate for the empowerment of women, creating large-scale impact and deconstructing institutional boundaries that obstruct women from working in high-level positions. Working as a women's rights activist will allow me to engage in creating lasting movements for equality, rather than contributing to a cycle that elevates the stances of wealthy individuals.

"Thank God it's Monday," sneakily nestled in the upper right corner. Although I attempt to love all my stickers equally (haha), this is one of my favorites. I always want my association with work to be positive.

And there are many others, including the horizontal, yellow stripes of the Human Rights Campaign; "The Team," a sticker from the Model G20 Economics Summit where I collaborated with youth from around the globe; and stickers from "Kode with Klossy," a community of girls working to promote women's involvement in underrepresented fields.

When my computer dies (hopefully not for another few years), it will be like my passport expiring. It'll be difficult leaving these moments and memories behind, but I probably won't want these stickers in my 20s anyways (except Harry Styles, that's never leaving). My next set of stickers will reveal my next set of aspirations. They hold the key to future paths I will navigate, knowledge I will gain, and connections I will make.

I am on Oxford Academy’s Speech and Debate Team, in both the Parliamentary Debate division and the Lincoln-Douglass debate division. I write screenplays, short stories, and opinionated blogs and am a regular contributor to my school literary magazine, The Gluestick. I have accumulated over 300 community service hours that includes work at homeless shelters, libraries, and special education youth camps. I have been evaluated by the College Board and have placed within the top percentile.

But I am not any of these things. I am not a test score, nor a debater, nor a writer. I am an anti-nihilist punk rockphilosopher. And I became so when I realized three things:

1) That the world is ruled by underwear. There is a variety of underwear for a variety of people. You have your ironed briefs for your businessmen, your soft cottons for the average, and hemp-based underwear for your environmental romantics. But underwear do not only tell us about who we are, they also influence our daily interactions in ways most of us don't even understand. For example, I have a specific pair of underwear that is holey, worn out but surprisingly comfortable. And despite how trivial underwear might be, when I am wearing my favorite pair, I feel as if I am on top of the world. In any case, these articles of clothing affect our being and are the unsung heroes of comfort.

2) When I realized I cannot understand the world. I recently debated at the Orange County Speech League Tournament, within the Parliamentary Division. This specific branch of debate is an hour long, and consists of two parties debating either side of a current political issue. In one particular debate, I was assigned the topic: “Should Nation States eliminate nuclear arms?” It so happened that I was on the negative side and it was my job to convince the judges that countries should continue manufacturing nuclear weapons. During the debate, something strange happened: I realized that we are a special breed of species, that so much effort and resources are invested to ensure mutual destruction. And I felt that this debate in a small college classroom had elucidated something much more profound about the scale of human existence. In any case, I won 1st place at the tournament, but as the crowd cheered when my name was called to stand before an audience of hundreds of other debaters, and I flashed a victorious smile at the cameras, I couldn’t help but imagine that somewhere at that moment a nuclear bomb was being manufactured, adding to an ever-growing stockpile of doom. And that's when I realized that the world was something I will never understand.

3) When I realized I was a punk rocker philosopher. One summer night, my friend took me to an underground hardcore punk rock show. It was inside a small abandoned church. After the show, I met and became a part of this small community. Many were lost and on a constant soul-search, and to my surprise, many, like myself, did not have a blue Mohawk or a nose piercing. Many were just ordinary people discussing Nietzsche, string theory, and governmental ideologies. Many were also artists creating promotional posters and inventive slogans for stickers. They were all people my age who could not afford to be part of a record label and did something extraordinary by playing in these abandoned churches, making their own CDs and making thousands of promotional buttons by hand. I realized then that punk rock is not about music nor is it a guy with a blue Mohawk screaming protests. Punk rock is an attitude, a mindset, and very much a culture. It is an antagonist to the conventional. It means making the best with what you have to contribute to a community. This was when I realized that I was a punk rock philosopher.

The world I come from consists of underwear, nuclear bombs, and punk rockers. And I love this world. My world is inherently complex, mysterious, and anti-nihilist. I am David Phan, somebody who spends his weekends debating in a three piece suit, other days immersed within the punk rock culture, and some days writing opinionated blogs about underwear.

But why college? I want a higher education. I want more than just the textbook fed classrooms in high school. A community which prizes revolutionary ideals, a sharing of multi-dynamical perspectives, an environment that ultimately acts as a medium for movement, similar to the punk rock community. I do not see college as a mere stepping stone for a stable career or a prosperous life, but as a supplement for knowledge and self-empowerment; it is a social engine that will jettison us to our next paradigm shift.

Every Saturday morning, I’d awaken to the smell of crushed garlic and piquant pepper. I would stumble into the kitchen to find my grandma squatting over a large silver bowl, mixing fat lips of fresh cabbages with garlic, salt, and red pepper. That was how the delectable Korean dish, kimchi, was born every weekend at my home.

My grandma’s specialty always dominated the dinner table as kimchi filled every plate. And like my grandma who had always been living with us, it seemed as though the luscious smell of garlic would never leave our home. But even the prided recipe was defenseless against the ravages of Alzheimer’s that inflicted my grandma’s mind.

Dementia slowly fed on her memories until she became as blank as a brand-new notebook. The ritualistic rigor of Saturday mornings came to a pause, and during dinner, the artificial taste of vacuum-packaged factory kimchi only emphasized the absence of the family tradition. I would look at her and ask, “Grandma, what’s my name?” But she would stare back at me with a clueless expression. Within a year of diagnosis, she lived with us like a total stranger.

One day, my mom brought home fresh cabbages and red pepper sauce. She brought out the old silver bowl and poured out the cabbages, smothering them with garlic and salt and pepper. The familiar tangy smell tingled my nose. Gingerly, my grandma stood up from the couch in the living room, and as if lured by the smell, sat by the silver bowl and dug her hands into the spiced cabbages. As her bony hands shredded the green lips, a look of determination grew on her face. Though her withered hands no longer displayed the swiftness and precision they once did, her face showed the aged rigor of a professional. For the first time in years, the smell of garlic filled the air and the rattling of the silver bowl resonated throughout the house.

That night, we ate kimchi. It wasn’t perfect; the cabbages were clumsily cut and the garlic was a little too strong. But kimchi had never tasted better. I still remember my grandma putting a piece in my mouth and saying, “Here, Dong Jin. Try it, my boy.”

Seeing grandma again this summer, that moment of clarity seemed ephemeral. Her disheveled hair and expressionless face told of the aggressive development of her illness.

But holding her hands, looking into her eyes, I could still smell that garlic. The moments of Saturday mornings remain ingrained in my mind. Grandma was an artist who painted the cabbages with strokes of red pepper. Like the sweet taste of kimchi, I hope to capture those memories in my keystrokes as I type away these words.

A piece of writing is more than just a piece of writing. It evokes. It inspires. It captures what time takes away.

My grandma used to say: “Tigers leave furs when they die, humans leave their names.” Her legacy was the smell of garlic that lingered around my house. Mine will be these words.

When I was very little, I caught the travel bug. It started after my grandparents first brought me to their home in France and I have now been to twenty-nine different countries. Each has given me a unique learning experience.

At five, I marveled at the Eiffel Tower in the City of Lights. When I was eight, I stood in the heart of Piazza San Marco feeding hordes of pigeons, then glided down Venetian waterways on sleek gondolas. At thirteen, I saw the ancient, megalithic structure of Stonehenge and walked along the Great Wall of China, amazed that the thousand-year-old stones were still in place.

It was through exploring cultures around the world that I first became interested in language.

It began with French, which taught me the importance of pronunciation. I remember once asking a store owner in Paris where Rue des Pyramides was. But when I pronounced it PYR–a–mides instead of pyr–A–mides, with more accent on the A, she looked at me bewildered.

In the eighth grade, I became fascinated with Spanish and aware of its similarities with English through cognates. Baseball in Spanish, for example, is béisbol, which looks different but sounds nearly the same. This was incredible to me as it made speech and comprehension more fluid, and even today I find that cognates come to the rescue when I forget how to say something in Spanish.

Then, in high school, I developed an enthusiasm for Chinese. As I studied Chinese at my school, I marveled how if just one stroke was missing from a character, the meaning is lost. I loved how long words were formed by combining simpler characters, so Huǒ (火) meaning fire and Shān (山) meaning mountain can be joined to create Huǒshān (火山), which means volcano. I love spending hours at a time practicing the characters and I can feel the beauty and rhythm as I form them.

Interestingly, after studying foreign languages, I was further intrigued by my native tongue. Through my love of books and fascination with developing a sesquipedalian lexicon (learning big words), I began to expand my English vocabulary. Studying the definitions prompted me to inquire about their origins, and suddenly I wanted to know all about etymology, the history of words. My freshman year I took a world history class and my love for history grew exponentially. To me, history is like a great novel, and it is especially fascinating because it took place in my own world.

But the best dimension that language brought to my life is interpersonal connection. When I speak with people in their native language, I find I can connect with them on a more intimate level. I’ve connected with people in the most unlikely places, finding a Bulgarian painter to use my few Bulgarian words with in the streets of Paris, striking up a conversation in Spanish with an Indian woman who used to work at the Argentinian embassy in Mumbai, and surprising a library worker by asking her a question in her native Mandarin.

I want to study foreign language and linguistics in college because, in short, it is something that I know I will use and develop for the rest of my life. I will never stop traveling, so attaining fluency in foreign languages will only benefit me. In the future, I hope to use these skills as the foundation of my work, whether it is in international business, foreign diplomacy, or translation.

I think of my journey as best expressed through a Chinese proverb that my teacher taught me, “I am like a chicken eating at a mountain of rice.” Each grain is another word for me to learn as I strive to satisfy my unquenchable thirst for knowledge.

Today, I still have the travel bug, and now, it seems, I am addicted to language too.

 Smeared blood, shredded feathers. Clearly, the bird was dead. But wait, the slight fluctuation of its chest, the slow blinking of its shiny black eyes. No, it was alive.

I had been typing an English essay when I heard my cat's loud meows and the flutter of wings. I had turned slightly at the noise and had found the barely breathing bird in front of me.

The shock came first. Mind racing, heart beating faster, blood draining from my face. I instinctively reached out my hand to hold it, like a long-lost keepsake from my youth. But then I remembered that birds had life, flesh, blood.

Death. Dare I say it out loud? Here, in my own home?

Within seconds, my reflexes kicked in. Get over the shock. Gloves, napkins, towels. Band-aid? How does one heal a bird? I rummaged through the house, keeping a wary eye on my cat. Donning yellow rubber gloves, I tentatively picked up the bird. Never mind the cat's hissing and protesting scratches, you need to save the bird. You need to ease its pain.

But my mind was blank. I stroked the bird with a paper towel to clear away the blood, see the wound. The wings were crumpled, the feet mangled. A large gash extended close to its jugular rendering its breathing shallow, unsteady. The rising and falling of its small breast slowed. Was the bird dying? No, please, not yet.

Why was this feeling so familiar, so tangible?

Oh. Yes. The long drive, the green hills, the white church, the funeral. The Chinese mass, the resounding amens, the flower arrangements. Me, crying silently, huddled in the corner. The Hsieh family huddled around the casket. Apologies. So many apologies. Finally, the body  lowered to rest. The body. Kari Hsieh. Still familiar, still tangible.

Hugging Mrs. Hsieh, I was a ghost, a statue. My brain and my body competed. Emotion wrestled with fact. Kari Hsieh, aged 17, my friend of four years, had died in the Chatsworth Metrolink Crash on Sep. 12, 2008. Kari was dead, I thought. Dead.

But I could still save the bird.

My frantic actions heightened my senses, mobilized my spirit. Cupping the bird, I ran outside, hoping the cool air outdoors would suture every wound, cause the bird to miraculously fly away. Yet there lay the bird in my hands, still gasping, still dying. Bird, human, human, bird. What was the difference? Both were the same. Mortal.

But couldn't I do something? Hold the bird longer, de-claw the cat? I wanted to go to my bedroom, confine myself to tears, replay my memories, never come out.

The bird's warmth faded away. Its heartbeat slowed along with its breath. For a long time, I stared thoughtlessly at it, so still in my hands.

Slowly, I dug a small hole in the black earth. As it disappeared under handfuls of dirt, my own heart grew stronger, my own breath more steady.

The wind, the sky, the dampness of the soil on my hands whispered to me, “The bird is dead. Kari has passed. But you are alive.” My breath, my heartbeat, my sweat sighed back, “I am alive. I am alive. I am alive.”

From page 54 of the maroon notebook sitting on my mahogany desk:

“Then Cain said to the Lord, “My punishment is greater than I can bear. I shall be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth and whoever finds me will kill me.” - Genesis 4:13

Here is a secret that no one in my family knows: I shot my brother when I was six. Luckily, it was a BB gun. But to this day, my older brother Jonathan does not know who shot him. And I have finally promised myself to confess this eleven year old secret to him after I write this essay.

The truth is, I was always jealous of my brother. Our grandparents, with whom we lived as children in Daegu, a rural city in South Korea, showered my brother with endless accolades: he was bright, athletic, and charismatic.

“Why can’t you be more like Jon?” my grandmother used to nag, pointing at me with a carrot stick. To me, Jon was just cocky. He would scoff at me when he would beat me in basketball, and when he brought home his painting of Bambi with the teacher’s sticker “Awesome!” on top, he would make several copies of it and showcase them on the refrigerator door. But I retreated to my desk where a pile of “Please draw this again and bring it to me tomorrow” papers lay, desperate for immediate treatment. Later, I even refused to attend the same elementary school and wouldn’t even eat meals with him.

Deep down I knew I had to get the chip off my shoulder. But I didn’t know how.

That is, until March 11th, 2001.

That day around six o’clock, juvenile combatants appeared in Kyung Mountain for their weekly battle, with cheeks smeared in mud and empty BB guns in their hands. The Korean War game was simple: to kill your opponent you had to shout “pow!” before he did. Once we situated ourselves, our captain blew the pinkie whistle and the war began. My friend Min-young and I hid behind a willow tree, eagerly awaiting our orders.

Beside us, our comrades were dying, each falling to the ground crying in “agony,” their hands clasping their “wounds.” Suddenly a wish for heroism surged within me: I grabbed Min-young’s arms and rushed towards the enemies’ headquarters, disobeying our orders to remain sentry duty. To tip the tide of the war, I had to kill their captain. We infiltrated the enemy lines, narrowly dodging each attack. We then cleared the pillars of asparagus ferns until the Captain’s lair came into view. I quickly pulled my clueless friend back into the bush.

Hearing us, the alarmed captain turned around: It was my brother.

He saw Min-young’s right arm sticking out from the bush and hurled a “grenade,” (a rock), bruising his arm.

“That’s not fair!” I roared in the loudest and most unrecognizable voice I could manage.

Startled, the Captain and his generals abandoned their post. Vengeance replaced my wish for heroism and I took off after the fleeing perpetrator. Streams of sweat ran down my face and I pursued him for several minutes until suddenly I was arrested by a small, yellow sign that read in Korean: DO NOT TRESPASS: Boar Traps Ahead. (Two summers ago, my five year old cousin, who insisted on joining the ranks, had wandered off-course during the battle; we found him at the bottom of a 20 ft deep pit with a deep gash in his forehead and shirt soaked in blood) “Hey, stop!” I shouted, heart pounding. “STOP!” My mind froze. My eyes just gazed at the fleeing object; what should I do?

I looked on as my shivering hand reached for the canister of BBs. The next second, I heard two shots followed by a cry. I opened my eyes just enough to see two village men carrying my brother away from the warning sign. I turned around, hurled my BB gun into the nearby Kyung Creek and ran home as fast as I could.

* * *

Days passed. My brother and I did not talk about the incident.

‘Maybe he knew it was me,’ I thought in fear as I tried to eavesdrop on his conversation with grandpa one day. When the door suddenly opened, I blurted, “Is anything wrong?”

“Nothing,” he said pushing past me, “Just a rough sleep.”

But in the next few weeks, something was happening inside me.

All the jealousy and anger I’d once felt had been replaced by a new feeling: guilt.

That night when my brother was gone I went to a local store and bought a piece of chocolate taffy, his favorite. I returned home and placed it on my brother’s bed with a note attached: “Love, Grandma.”

Several days later, I secretly went into his room and folded his unkempt pajamas.

Then, other things began to change. We began sharing clothes (something we had never done), started watching Pokémon episodes together, and then, on his ninth birthday, I did something with Jon that I hadn’t done in six years: I ate dinner with him. I even ate fishcakes, which he loved but I hated. And I didn’t complain.

Today, my brother is one of my closest friends. Every week I accompany him to Carlson Hospital where he receives treatment for his obsessive compulsive disorder and schizophrenia. While in the waiting room, we play a noisy game of Zenga, comment on the Lakers’ performance or listen to the radio on the registrar’s desk.

Then, the door to the doctor’s office opens.

“Jonathan Lee, please come in.”

I tap his shoulder and whisper, “Rock it, bro.”

After he leaves, I take out my notebook and begin writing where I left off.

Beside me, the receptionist’s fingers hover over the radio in search of a new station, eventually settling on one. I hear LeAnn Rimes singing “Amazing Grace.” Her voice slowly rises over the noise of the bustling room.

“’Twas Grace that taught my heart to fear. And Grace, my fears relieved...”

Smiling, I open Jon’s Jansport backpack and neatly place this essay inside and a chocolate taffy with a note attached.

Twenty minutes have passed when the door abruptly opens.

“Guess what the doctor just said?” my brother cries, unable to hide his exhilaration.

I look up and I smile too.

Bowing down to the porcelain god, I emptied the contents of my stomach. Foaming at the mouth, I was ready to pass out. My body couldn’t stop shaking as I gasped for air, and the room started spinning.

Ten minutes prior, I had been eating dinner with my family at a Chinese restaurant, drinking chicken-feet soup. My mom had specifically asked the waitress if there were peanuts in it, because when I was two we found out that I am deathly allergic to them. When the waitress replied no, I went for it. Suddenly I started scratching my neck, feeling the hives that had started to form. I rushed to the restroom to throw up because my throat was itchy and I felt a weight on my chest. I was experiencing anaphylactic shock, which prevented me from taking anything but shallow breaths. I was fighting the one thing that is meant to protect me and keep me alive – my own body.

At five years old, I couldn’t comprehend what had happened. All I knew was that I felt sick, and I was waiting for my mom to give me something to make it better. I thought my parents were superheroes; surely they would be able to make well again. But I became scared when I heard the fear in their voices as they rushed me to the ER.

After that incident, I began to fear. I became scared of death, eating, and even my own body. As I grew older, I became paranoid about checking food labels and I avoided eating if I didn’t know what was in the food. I knew what could happen if I ate one wrong thing, and I wasn’t willing to risk it for a snack. Ultimately, that fear turned into resentment; I resented my body for making me an outsider.

In the years that followed, this experience and my regular visits to my allergy specialist inspired me to become an allergy specialist. Even though I was probably only ten at the time, I wanted to find a way to help kids like me. I wanted to find a solution so that nobody would have to feel the way I did; nobody deserved to feel that pain, fear, and resentment. As I learned more about the medical world, I became more fascinated with the body’s immune responses, specifically, how a body reacts to allergens. This past summer, I took a month-long course on human immunology at Stanford University. I learned about the different mechanisms and cells that our bodies use in order to fight off pathogens. My desire to major in biology in college has been stimulated by my fascination with the human body, its processes, and the desire to find a way to help people with allergies. I hope that one day I can find a way to stop allergic reactions or at least lessen the symptoms, so that children and adults don’t have to feel the same fear and bitterness that I felt.

When I was 16, I lived with the Watkins family in Wichita, Kansas. Mrs. Watkins was the coordinator of the foreign exchange student program I was enrolled in. She had a nine year old son named Cody. I would babysit Cody every day after school for at least two to three hours. We would play Scrabble or he would read to me from Charlotte’s Web or The Ugly Duckling. He would talk a lot about his friends and school life, and I would listen to him and ask him the meanings of certain words. He was my first friend in the New World.

My second family was the Martinez family, who were friends of the Watkins’s. The host dad Michael was a high school English teacher and the host mom Jennifer (who had me call her “Jen”) taught elementary school. She had recently delivered a baby, so she was still in the hospital when I moved into their house. The Martinez family did almost everything together. We made pizza together, watched Shrek on their cozy couch together, and went fishing on Sunday together. On rainy days, Michael, Jen and I would sit on the porch and listen to the rain, talking about our dreams and thoughts. Within two months I was calling them mom and dad.

After I finished the exchange student program, I had the option of returning to Korea but I decided to stay in America. I wanted to see new places and meet different people. Since I wasn’t an exchange student anymore, I had the freedom--and burden--of finding a new school and host family on my own. After a few days of thorough investigation, I found the Struiksma family in California. They were a unique group.

The host mom Shellie was a single mom who had two of her own sons and two Russian daughters that she had adopted. The kids always had something warm to eat, and were always on their best behavior at home and in school. It would be fair to say that this was all due to Shellie’s upbringing. My room was on the first floor, right in front of Shellie’s hair salon, a small business that she ran out of her home. In the living room were six or seven huge amplifiers and a gigantic chandelier hung from the high ceiling. The kitchen had a bar. At first, the non-stop visits from strangers made me nervous, but soon I got used to them. I remember one night, a couple barged into my room while I was sleeping. It was awkward.

After a few months I realized we weren’t the best fit. In the nicest way possible, I told them I had to leave. They understood.

The Ortiz family was my fourth family. Kimberly, the host mom, treated me the same way she treated her own son. She made me do chores: I fixed dinner, fed their two dogs Sassy and Lady, and once a week I cleaned the bathroom. I also had to follow some rules: No food in my room, no using the family computer, no lights on after midnight, and no ride unless it was an emergency. The first couple of months were really hard to get used to, but eventually I adjusted.

I lived with the Ortiz family for seven months like a monk in the deep forest. However, the host dad Greg’s asthma got worse after winter, so he wanted to move to the countryside. It was unexpected and I only had a week to find a new host family. I asked my friend Danielle if I could live with her until I found a new home. That’s how I met the Dirksen family, my fifth family.

The Dirksen family had three kids. They were all different. Danielle liked bitter black coffee, Christian liked energy drinks, and Becca liked sweet lemon tea. Dawn, the host mom didn’t like winter, and Mark, the host dad, didn’t like summer. After dinner, we would all play Wii Sports together. I was the king of bowling, and Dawn was the queen of tennis. I don’t remember a single time that they argued about the games. Afterward, we would gather in the living room and Danielle would play the piano while the rest of us sang hymns.

Of course, those 28 months were too short to fully understand all five families, but I learned from and was shaped by each of them. By teaching me English, nine year-old Cody taught me the importance of being able to learn from anyone; the Martinez family showed me the value of spending time together as a family; the Struiksma family taught me to reserve judgment about divorced women and adopted children; Mrs. Ortiz taught me the value of discipline and the Dirksen family taught me the importance of appreciating one another’s different qualities.

Getting along with other people is necessary for anyone and living with five families has made me more sensitive to others’ needs: I have learned how to recognize when someone needs to talk, when I should give advice and when to simply listen, and when someone needs to be left alone; in the process, I have become much more adaptable. I’m ready to change, learn, and be shaped by my future families.

I’ve spent most of my life as an anti-vegetable carboholic.  For years, processed snack foods ruled the kitchen kingdom of my household and animal products outnumbered plant-based offerings.

My transformation began with my mom’s cancer diagnosis. My mom went on a 100% whole food plant-based diet. I fully embraced this new eating philosophy to show my support. Eager to figure out the whole “vegan” thing, the two of us started binge-watching health documentaries such as “What the Health” and “Forks Over Knives”. We read all the books by the featured doctors like “The China Study” and “How Not To Die”. I became entranced by the world of nutritional science and how certain foods could help prevent cancer or boost metabolism.

Each new food I discovered gave me an education on the role diet plays on health. I learned that, by eating sweet potatoes and brown rice, you could cure acne and heart disease. I discovered eating leafy greens with citrus fruits could boost iron absorption rates. I loved pairing my foods to create the perfect macronutrient balance. Did you know beans and rice make a complete protein?

Food has also turned me into a sustainability nut. Living plant-based also saves the planet from the impact of animal agriculture. For the same amount of land space, a farmer can produce 200 kilograms of soybeans versus 16 kilograms of beef. I do my part to have as small of an ecological footprint as I can. I stopped using plastic snack bags and instead turned to reusable beeswax wraps. My favorite reusable appliance is my foldable straw. If I am going to nourish my body, shouldn’t I also want to nourish the earth?

My journey toward healthy living led me to becoming co-leader of the Northern Nevada PlantPure Pod, “Biggest Little Plant Pod”, a group dedicated to spreading the message about the whole food plant-based lifestyle. We are currently working on a restaurant campaign to encourage local eateries to create a plant-based, oil-free menu option and become PlantPure certified. After discovering how many restaurants use oil in their cooking, I decided I needed to open a plant-based oil free cafe to make up for this gap. My dream is to open up my very own affordable oatmeal cafe based on my Instagram page, morning_mOATivations. And I know that oatmeal isn’t the sexiest superfood out there, so here’s my sales pitch: I’m going to make oatmeal the Beyonce of the breakfast world- sweet, sassy, and power packed. This allows me to educate people about nutritional science through the stomach.

Finally, I am a strong proponent of hands-on experience for learning what good food looks and tastes like, so cooking is one of my favorite ways to teach the benefits of a plant-based lifestyle. Using my taste buds as my textbook to learn which flavors work together and which ones don’t helps me educate, as I’ve found that information tends to stick in a person’s mind once they’ve experienced healthy, delicious foods with their own senses. Our society has taught us that delicious food has to make us feel guilty, when that is simply not the case. The best feeling in the world is falling in love with a dish and then learning all the health benefits that it provides the body.

While my classmates complain about being tired, I have more energy because my body is finally getting the right macros, vitamins, and minerals it needs. This has allowed me to push myself harder physically, excelling in running and earning my high school Cross Country team’s Most Improved award. I’m still a picky eater. But the foods I am particular about have changed. Rather than a carboholic, I choose to call myself a vegeholic.

Meditation over a flaxen sunset with a friend and parmesan-topped spaghetti for dinner — “14.” Assignments piling up on my desk as a high fever keeps me sick at home — “3.” Taking a photo excursion through downtown Seattle for a Spanish project — “15.” For the past 700 days and counting, the Happiness Spreadsheet has been my digital collection for documenting numerical, descriptive, and graphical representations of my happiness. Its instructions are simple: Open the Google Sheet, enter a number between 1 and 20 that best represents my level of happiness, and write a short comment describing the day. But the practical aspect of the spreadsheet is only a piece of what it has represented in my life.

A “14” etched on November 15, 2018, marked the first Lakeside Cooking on the Stove Club meeting. What had started as a farcical proposition of mine transformed into a playground where high school classmates and I convene every two weeks to prepare a savory afternoon snack for ourselves. A few months later, a “16” scribbled on February 27, 2019, marked the completion of a fence my Spanish class and I constructed for the dusty soccer field at a small Colombian village. Hard-fought days of mixing cement and transporting supplies had paid off for the affectionate community we had immediately come to love. The Happiness Spreadsheet doesn’t only reflect my own thoughts and emotions; it is an illustration of the fulfillment I get from gifting happiness to others.

If happiness paves the roads of my life, my family is the city intertwined by those roads — each member a distinct neighborhood, a distinct story. In times of stress, whether it be studying for an upcoming derivatives test or presenting my research at an international conference, I dash to my father for help. Coming from the dusty, people-packed backstreets of Thiruvananthapuram, India, he guides me in looking past the chaos and noticing the hidden accomplishments that lie in the corners. When in need of confidence, I find my mother, who taps her experiences living in her tranquil and sturdy tatami-covered home in Hiroshima, Japan, helping me prepare for my first high school dance or my final match in a tennis tournament. Whenever my Happiness Spreadsheet numbers touch lows, my family is always there to level me out to “10.”

The Happiness Spreadsheet is also a battery monitor for enthusiasm. On occasion, it is on full charge, like when I touched the last chord on the piano for my composition's winner recital or when, one frosty Friday morning, I convinced a teacher to play over the school speakers a holiday medley I’d recorded with a friend. Other times, the battery is depleted, and I am frustrated by writer's block, when not a single melody, chord, or musical construct crosses my mind. The Happiness Spreadsheet can be a hall of fame, but it can likewise be a catalog of mistakes, burdens, and grueling challenges.

The spreadsheet began on a typical school day when I left my physics class following the most confusing test I’d taken. The idea was born spontaneously at lunch, and I asked two of my friends if they were interested in pursuing this exercise with me. We thought the practice would last only a couple of weeks or months at most, but after reaching 700 days, we now wonder if we’ll ever stop. To this day, I ponder its full importance in my life. With every new number I enter, I recognize that each entry is not what defines me; rather, it is the ever-growing line connecting all the data points that reflects who I am today. With every valley, I force myself onward and with every mountain's peak, I recognize the valleys I’ve crossed to reach the summit. Where will the Happiness Spreadsheet take me next?

".miK ijniM" This is how I wrote my name until I was seven. I was a left-handed kid who wrote from right to left, which made my writing comprehensible only to myself. Only after years of practice did I become an ambidextrous writer who could translate my incomprehensible writing. As I look back on my life, I realized that this was my first act of translation.

Translation means reinterpreting my Calculus teacher’s description of L’hospital’s rule into a useful tool for solving the limits. As I deciphered complex codes into comprehensible languages like rate of change and speed of an object, I gained the ability to solve even more complicated and fascinating problems. My Calculus teacher often told me, “It’s not until you can teach math concepts to somebody that you understand them completely.” Before I discovered the joy of teaching, I often explained difficult math concepts to my friends as a tool for reviewing what I’d learned. Now, I volunteer to tutor others: as a Korean tutor for friends who love Korean culture and a golf tutor for new team members. Tutoring is how I integrate and strengthen new concepts for myself.

My talent for translating also applies to my role as a “therapist” for my family and friends. I’m able to identify their real feelings beneath superficial words by translating hand-gestures, facial expressions, and tones. I often put myself into their situation and ask, "What emotional support would I want or need if I was in this situation?" Through these acts of translation, I’ve grown into a more reliable and perceptive friend, daughter, and sister.

However, my translation can't accurately account for the experiences I have yet to go through. After realizing the limitations of my experience, I created a bucket list full of activities out of my comfort zone, which includes traveling abroad by myself, publishing my own book, and giving a lecture in front of a crowd. Although it is a mere list written on the front page of my diary, I found myself vividly planning and picturing myself accomplishing those moments. By widening my experiences, I’ll be a therapist who can empathize fully and give meaningful advice based on rich experiences.

My knack for translating has led me to become a real-life Korean language translator. As an English to Korean letter translator in a non-profit organization, Compassion, I serve as a communication bridge between benefactors and children in developing countries, who communicate through monthly letters. I’ve translated hundreds of letters by researching each country to provide context that considers both cultural aspects and nuances of the language. This experience has motivated me to learn languages like Spanish and Mandarin. I’ve realized that learning various languages has been a journey of self-discovery: the way I talk and interact with people changed depending on the language I used. As I get to know more about myself through different languages, I grew more confident to meet new people and build new friendships.

While translating has been a huge part of my life, a professional translator is not my dream job. I want to be an ambulatory care clinical pharmacist who manages the medication of patients with chronic diseases. In fact, translating is a huge part of the job of a clinical pharmacist. I should substitute myself into patients’ situations to respond to their needs effectively, which requires my translating skill as a “therapist.” Moreover, as a clinical pharmacist, I’ll be the patients’ private tutor who not only guides them through the right use of medication but also gives them emotional support. As my qualities as a “therapist” and a “tutor” shaped me into a great translator, I will continue to develop my future as a clinical pharmacist by enhancing and discovering my qualities. In one form or another, I've always been and will be a translator.

I sit, cradled by the two largest branches of the Newton Pippin Tree, watching the ether. The Green Mountains of Vermont stretch out indefinitely, and from my elevated vantage point, I feel as though we are peers, motionless in solidarity. I’ve lost my corporeal form and instead, while watching invisible currents drive white leviathans across the sky, have drifted up into the epistemological stream; completely alone with my questions, diving for answers. But a few months ago, I would have considered this an utter waste of time.

Prior to attending Mountain School, my paradigm was substantially limited; opinions, prejudices, and ideas shaped by the testosterone-rich environment of Landon School. I was herded by result-oriented, fast-paced, technologically-reliant parameters towards psychology and neuroscience (the NIH, a mere 2.11 mile run from my school, is like a beacon on a hill). I was taught that one’s paramount accomplishment should be specialization.

Subconsciously I knew this was not who I wanted to be and seized the chance to apply to the Mountain School. Upon my arrival, though, I immediately felt I did not belong. I found the general atmosphere of hunky-dory acceptance foreign and incredibly unnerving.

So, rather than engage, I retreated to what was most comfortable: sports and work. In the second week, the perfect aggregate of the two, a Broomball tournament, was set to occur. Though I had never played before, I had a distinct vision for it, so decided to organize it.

That night, the glow-in-the-dark ball skittered across the ice. My opponent and I, brooms in hand, charged forward. We collided and I banana-peeled, my head taking the brunt of the impact. Stubborn as I was, even with a concussion, I wanted to remain in class and do everything my peers did, but my healing brain protested. My teachers didn’t quite know what to do with me, so, no longer confined to a classroom if I didn’t want to be, I was in limbo. I began wandering around campus with no company except my thoughts. Occasionally, Zora, my English teacher’s dog, would tag along and we’d walk for miles in each other's silent company. Other times, I found myself pruning the orchard, feeding the school’s wood furnaces, or my new favorite activity, splitting wood. Throughout those days, I created a new-found sense of home in my head.

However, thinking on my own wasn’t enough; I needed more perspectives. I organized raucous late-night discussions about everything from medieval war machines to political theory and  randomly challenged my friends to “say something outrageous and defend it.” And whether we achieve profundity or not, I find myself enjoying the act of discourse itself. As Thoreau writes, “Let the daily tide leave some deposit on these pages, as it leaves, the waves may cast up pearls.” I have always loved ideas, but now understand what it means to ride their waves, to let them breathe and become something other than just answers to immediate problems.

I am most enamored by ideas that cultivate ingenious and practical enrichments for humanity. I enjoy picking some conundrum, large or small, and puzzling out a solution. Returning from a cross country meet recently, my friend and I, serendipitously, designed a socially responsible disposable water bottle completely on accident. Now we hope to create it.

I am still interested in psychology and neuroscience, but also desire to incorporate contemplative thought into this work, analyzing enigmas from many different perspectives. My internships at the NIH and the National Hospital for Neuroscience and Neurosurgery in London have offered me valuable exposure to research and medicine. But I have come to realize that neither of my previous intended professions allow me to expand consciousness in the way I would prefer.

After much soul-searching, I have landed on behavioral economics as the perfect synergy of the fields I love. All it took was a knock on the head.

“Chris, what would you like to have for Christmas Dinner?”

Suddenly, a miniature gathering of the European Commission glares straight at me. I feel the pressure of picking one option over the other.

 What do I choose? The Roast Duck of Denmark, the Five Fish of Italy, the Turkey of Great Britain, or the Ham of the U.S.? Like the various nations of the European Union, the individual proponents of these culinary varieties are lobbying their interests to me, a miniature Jean-Claude Junker.

Now, you may be asking yourselves: why would I be so pensive over a meal choice?

See, I have been blessed to be a part of what my mother calls the “melting pot of Europe.”  While I was born in England, my brothers were born in Denmark and New York. I have a Swedish sister-in-law, Italian Aunts, an English Uncle, Romanian cousins and an Italo-Danish immigrant father. Every year, that same family gathers together in New York City to celebrate Christmas. While this wonderful kaleidoscope of cultures has caused me to be the ‘peacekeeper’ during meal arbitrations, it has fundamentally impacted my life.

Our family’s ethnic diversity has meant that virtually each person adheres to a different position on the political spectrum. This has naturally triggered many discussions, ranging from the merits of European single-payer healthcare to those of America’s gun laws, that have often animated our meals. These exact conversations drove me to learn more about what my parents, grandparents, and other relatives were debating with a polite and considerate passion. This ongoing discourse on current events not only initiated my interests in politics and history, but also prepared me greatly for my time as a state-champion debater for Regis’s Public Forum team. In turn, participating in debate has expanded my knowledge regarding matters ranging from civil rights reparations to American redeployment in Iraq, while enriching my capacities to thoughtfully express my views on those and other issues, both during P.F. rounds and at the dinner table.

Just as I’ve learned to understand and bridge the divides between a rich tapestry of cultures in order to develop my familial relations, society’s leadership must also do the same on a grander scale. This awareness incited a passion for statecraft within me – the very art of balancing different perspectives - and therefore a desire to actively engage in government. With my experiences in mind, I felt there was no better place to start than my own neighborhood of Bay Ridge. Young hipsters, a high concentration of seniors, Italian & Irish middle class families, and a growing population of Middle-Eastern Americans help to comprise a district that I have begun serving as the first teenaged member of my local Community Board.  Within my public service capacity, I am committed to making policy judgments (for example, regarding hookah bars, zoning regulations, and park renovation expenses) that are both wise and respectful of my community’s diversity.

Most importantly, my family has taught me an integral life lesson. As our Christmas Dinner squabbles suggest, seemingly insurmountable impasses can be resolved through respect and dialogue, even producing delicious results! On a grander scale, it has elucidated that truly inclusive discourse and toleration of diverse perspectives render tribalism, sectarianism, and the  divisive aspects of identity politics powerless over our cohesion. I fundamentally value cultural, political, and theological variety; my own microcosm reflecting our global society at large has inspired me to strive to solve the many conflicts of bitterness and sectionalism in our world today. This vocation may come in the form of political leadership that truly respects all perspectives and philosophies, or perhaps as diplomacy facilitating unity between the various nations of the world. The problems I would need to help remedy are numerous and daunting, but our annual Christmas feasts will forever remind me that they can be overcome, and that humanity’s diversity is not a weakness, but a definitive strength.

Before I came to America, I drank Puer Tea with my father every morning in my bedroom, sitting cross-legged on Suzhou-silk mats beside a view of the Lakeside reservoir. Beside a dark end table, we picked up teacups as the mild aroma greeted our noses. As we faced the French window, my father would share the news he read in China Daily: the Syrian civil war, climate change, and gender equality in Hollywood. Most of the time, I only listened. With each piece of news, my curiosity piqued. Secretly, I made a decision that I wanted to be the one to discuss the news with him from my perspective. So, I decided to study in America to learn more about the world.

After one year’s extensive research and hours of interviews, I came to America for 9th grade and moved in with a host family. But, my new room lacked stories and cups of tea. Fortunately, I found Blue House Cafe on my walk home from church, and started studying there. With white walls, comfortable sofas, and high stools, Blue House is spacious and bright. Hearing people’s stories and looking at their warm smiles when they taste various pastries as I sat by the window, I watched as a production designer scouted locations for his film, or a painter took notes while brainstorming for his freehand brushwork of Blue House. With a cup of coffee, I dig into differential and parametric equations for my upcoming AP Calculus test, learn the nuances of public speaking by watching Michael Sandel’s Justice lectures on my laptop, and plan fundraising events for my non-profit.

I’ve also learned by watching leaders host meetings at the rectangle conference table at the back of the cafe and I learn from the leaders of meetings, watching as they hold the edge of the table and express their ideas. Similarly, as president of the International Students Club, I invited my teammates to have meetings with me at the cafe. Coordinating the schedule with other members in Blue House has become a frequent event. Consuming several cups of coffee, my team and I have planned Lunar New Year events, field trip to the Golden Gate Bridge, and Chinese lunch in school to help international students feel more at home. Straightening my back and bracing my shoulders, I stood up behind the conference table and expressed my creative ideas passionately. After each meeting, we shared buttermilk coffee-cake.

In my spot next to the window, I also witnessed different kinds of people. I viewed visitors dragging their luggage, women carrying shopping bags, and people wandering in tattered clothes --the diversity of San Francisco. Two years ago I saw volunteers wearing City Impact shirts offering sandwiches and hot chocolate to homeless people outside of the cafe. I investigated more about City Impact and eventually signed up to volunteer. No longer was I a bystander. At holiday outreach events, I prepared and delivered food to homeless people. While sharing my coffee, I listened to a story from an older Chinese man who told me, in Mandarin, how he had been abandoned by his children and felt lonely.

Last summer, I returned to Xiamen, China, and taught my father how to drink coffee. Now, a Chemex and teapot are both on the end table. Instead of simply listening, I shared my experiences as a club president, a community leader, and a volunteer. I showed him my business plan and prototypes. My father raised his cup of coffee and made a toast to me, “Good girl! I am so proud of you.” Then, he patted my head as before. Together, we emptied our cups while the smell of coffee lingered.

I add the critically measured sugary tea mixture to the gallon jar containing the slimy, white, disc-shaped layers of the symbiotic culture of bacteria and yeast.

Now to wait.

After exactly seven days, I pour the liquid into a fermentation-grade glass bottle with a ratio of 20% pomegranate juice and 80% fermented tea. I place it on my kitchen counter, periodically checking it to relieve the built-up CO2.

Finally, after an additional seventy-two hours, the time comes to try it. I crack the seal on the bottle, leaning over to smell what I assume will be a tangy, fruity, delicious pomegranate solution. and it smells like rotten eggs. The insufferable stench fills my nostrils and crushes my confidence. I'm momentarily taken aback, unable to understand how I went wrong when I followed the recipe perfectly.

My issue wasn't misreading the recipe or failing to follow a rule, it was bypassing my creative instincts and forgetting the unpredictable nature of fermentation. I needed to trust the creative side of kombucha— the side that takes people's perfectionist energy and explodes it into a puddle of rotten egg smelling 'booch (my preferred name for the drink- not "fermented, effervescent liquid from a symbiotic culture of acetic acid bacteria and yeast"). I was too caught up in the side that requires extreme preciseness to notice when the balance between perfectionism and imperfectionism was being thrown off. The key, I have learned, is knowing when to prioritize following the recipe and when to let myself be creative. Sure, there are scientific variables such as proximity to heat sources and how many grams of sugar to add. But, there's also person-dependent variables like how long I decide to ferment it, what fruits I decide will be a fun combination, and which friend I got my first SCOBY from (taking "symbiotic" to a new level).

I often find myself feeling pressured to choose one side or the other, one extreme over the alternative. I've been told that I can either be a meticulous scientist or a messy artist, but to be both is an unacceptable contradiction. However, I choose a grey area; a place where I can channel my creativity into the sciences, as well as channel my precision into my photography.

I still have the first photo I ever took on the first camera I ever had. Or rather, the first camera I ever made. Making that pinhole camera was truly a painstaking process: take a cardboard box, tap it shut, and poke a hole in it. Okay, maybe it wasn't that hard. But learning the exact process of taking and developing a photo in its simplest form, the science of it, is what drove me to pursue photography. I remember being so unhappy with the photo I took; it was faded, underexposed, and imperfect. For years, I felt incredibly pressured to try and perfect my photography. It wasn't until I was defeated, staring at a puddle of kombucha, that I realized that there doesn't always have to be a standard of perfection in my art, and that excited me.

So, am I a perfectionist? Or do I crave pure spontaneity and creativity? Can I be both?

Perfectionism leaves little to be missed. With a keen eye, I can quickly identify my mistakes and transform them into something with purpose and definitude. On the other hand, imperfection is the basis for change and for growth. My resistance against perfectionism is what has allowed me to learn to move forward by seeing the big picture; it has opened me to new experiences, like bacteria cross-culturing to create something new, something different, something better. I am not afraid of change or adversity, though perhaps I am afraid of conformity. To fit the mold of perfection would compromise my creativity, and I am not willing to make that sacrifice.

I hold onto my time as dearly as my Scottish granny holds onto her money. I’m careful about how I spend it and fearful of wasting it. Precious minutes can show someone I care and can mean the difference between accomplishing a goal or being too late to even start and my life depends on carefully budgeting my time for studying, practicing with my show choir, and hanging out with my friends. However, there are moments where the seconds stand still.

It is already dark when I park in my driveway after a long day at school and rehearsals. I can’t help but smile when I see my dog Kona bounce with excitement, then slide across the tile floor to welcome me as I open the door. I run with him into my parent’s bedroom, where my mom, dad, and sister are waiting for me. We pile onto my parents’ bed to talk about what’s going on in our lives, plan our next trip to the beach, tell jokes, and “spill tea.” They help me see challenges with a realistic perspective, grounding me in what matters. Not paying attention to the clock, I allow myself to relax for a brief moment in my busy life.

Laughter fills the show choir room as my teammates and I pass the time by telling bad jokes and breaking out in random bursts of movement. Overtired, we don’t even realize we’re entering the fourth hour of rehearsal. This same sense of camaraderie follows us onstage, where we become so invested in the story we are portraying we lose track of time. My show choir is my second family. I realize I choreograph not for recognition, but to help sixty of my best friends find their footing. At the same time, they help me find my voice.

The heavy scuba gear jerks me under the icy water, and exhilaration washes over me. Lost in the meditative rolling effect of the tide and the hum of the vast ocean, I feel present. I dive deeper to inspect a vibrant community of creatures, and we float together, carefree and synchronized. My fascination with marine life led me to volunteer as an exhibit interpreter for the Aquarium of the Pacific, where I share my love for the ocean. Most of my time is spent rescuing animals from small children and, in turn, keeping small children from drowning in the tanks. I’ll never forget the time when a visiting family and I were so involved in discussing ocean conservation that, before I knew it, an hour had passed. Finding this mutual connection over the love of marine life and the desire to conserve the ocean environment keeps me returning each summer.

“Why don’t we have any medical supplies?” The thought screams through my mind as I carry a sobbing girl on my back across campus in search of an ice pack and ankle wrap. She had just fallen while performing, and I could relate to the pain and fear in her eyes. The chaos of the show becomes distant, and I devote my time to bringing her relief, no matter how long it may take. I find what I need to treat her injury in the sports medicine training room. I didn’t realize she would be the first of many patients I would tend to in this training room. Since then, I’ve launched a sports medicine program to provide care to the 500-person choir program.

Saturday morning bagels with my family. Singing backup for Barry Manilow with my choir. Swimming with sea turtles in the Pacific. Making my teammate smile even though he’s in pain. These are the moments I hold onto, the ones that define who I am, and who I want to be. For me, time isn’t just seconds ticking by on a clock, it’s how I measure what matters.

“Mommy I can’t see myself.”

I was six when I first refused/rejected girl’s clothing, eight when I only wore boy’s clothing, and fifteen when I realized why. When gifted dresses I was told to “smile and say thank you” while Spiderman shirts took no prompting from me, I’d throw my arms around the giver and thank them. My whole life has been others invading my gender with their questions, tears signed by my body, and a war against my closet. Fifteen years and I finally realized why, this was a girl’s body, and I am a boy.

Soon after this, I came out to my mom. I explained how lost I felt, how confused I was, how “I think I’m Transgender.” It was like all those years of being out of place had led to that moment, my truth, the realization of who I was. My mom cried and said she loved me.

The most important factor in my transition was my mom’s support. She scheduled me an appointment with a gender therapist, let me donate my female clothes, and helped build a masculine wardrobe. With her help, I went on hormones five months after coming out and got surgery a year later. I finally found myself, and my mom fought for me, her love was endless. Even though I had friends, writing, and therapy, my strongest support was my mother.

On August 30th, 2018 my mom passed away unexpectedly. My favorite person, the one who helped me become the man I am today, ripped away from me, leaving a giant hole in my heart and in my life.

Life got dull. Learning how to wake up without my mom every morning became routine. Nothing felt right, a constant numbness to everything, and fog brain was my kryptonite. I paid attention in class, I did the work, but nothing stuck. I felt so stupid, I knew I was capable, I could solve a Rubik’s cube in 25 seconds and write poetry, but I felt broken. I was lost, I couldn’t see myself, so stuck on my mother that I fell into an ‘It will never get better’ mindset.

It took over a year to get out of my slump. 25 therapy sessions, over 40 poems, not a single one didn’t mention my mom. I shared my writing at open mics, with friends, and I cried every time. I embraced the pain, the hurt, and eventually, it became the norm. I grew used to not having my mom around.

My mom always wanted to change the world, to fix the broken parts of society. She didn’t get to. Now that I’m in a good place, mentally and physically, I’m going to make that impact. Not just for her, but for me, and all the people who need a support branch as strong as the one my mom gave me.

I’m starting with whats impacted me most of my life, what’s still in front of me, being Transgender in the school system. For my senior project, I am using my story and experience as a young Transgender man to inform local schools, specifically the staff, about the do’s and dont’s of dealing with a Transgender student. I am determined to make sure no one feels as alone as I did. I want to be able to reach people, and use motivational speaking as the platform.

After experiencing many twists and turns in my life, I’m finally at a good spot. I know what I want to do with my life, and I know how I’m going to get there.

Mom, I can see myself now. Thank you.

Are you tired of seeing an iPhone everywhere? Samsung glitchy? It’s time for a change. I present to you, the iTaylor. I am the iTaylor. On the outside, I look like any smart phone, but when you open my settings and explore my abilities, you will find I have many unique features.

The iTaylor’s best feature is its built-in optimism. Thanks to my positivity, I was chosen to give the morning announcements freshman year. Now, I am the alarm clock for the 1,428 students of Fox Lane High School. For the past three years, I have been starting everyone’s morning with a bubbly, “Good morning, foxes!” and ending with “Have a marvelous Monday,” “Terrific Tuesday” or “Phenomenal Friday!”  My adjective-a-day keeps people listening, gives me conversation starters with faculty, and solicits fun suggestions from my friends.

Next up, language settings. I’ve worked hard to be bilingual so the iTaylor can be set to either English or Spanish. Fun fact: In middle school, I set my phone to Spanish so that messages like “Alexis te envió un mensaje en Instagram,” would increase my fluency. I learned nuances of the language by watching Spanish sitcoms like Siete Vidas and Spanish movies like Como Agua Para Chocolate. I appreciate the emphasis Spanish culture places on relationships, the way siblings take care of each other, and how grandparents’ wisdom is valued. Inspired, I began creating family events and even making efforts to grow closer to my second cousins.

At eight years old, I was diagnosed with what some might call a glitch: epilepsy. Fortunately, a new IOS software update cured my condition by the age of 15, but through epilepsy, I gained a love of exploration. Whereas at 10, I couldn’t bathe without supervision, I now enjoy snorkeling in unknown waters. While at 11, I couldn’t be left alone with my friends, I now explore the subways, crowded streets, and Broadway shows of New York City. Overcoming epilepsy taught me to take risks and explore new places.

This brings us to the iTaylor location settings. Two summers ago, I travelled to Ecuador to live with a friend’s family and teach Spanish theater to third graders. The experience implanted a “cookie” in me, filling me with a desire to learn about different cultures. I brought this desire home to a volunteer position at a local program for immigrant children. I helped the kids make presentations about their places of origin, including Mexico, Guatemala, and Honduras. Also, as resident tour guide and ambassador for exchange students at my school, I’ve discovered North African fusion music from Selima, learned German slang from Henrike, and helped Saidimar prepare his Mr.Sulu campaign, a regional pageant in the Philippines. It became clear that the English language, one I took for granted, is the central feature that brings groups together.

This past summer, I brought my talents to Scotland, playing the dual role of  Artistic Director and leading character for Geek the Musical. I worked to promote the show in the Edinburgh Fringe Festival against 53,232 shows, reinventing ways to motivate the cast and connect with strangers from all over the world. We learned the more we connected, the more our audience grew. I applied these skills to my leadership positions at home, including my High School Theater Group, Players. I’m now better at creating a marketing strategy that includes door-to-door sales, print advertising, and identifying broader target audiences to fill seats.

The rollout plan for the iTaylor is to introduce it to the theater market. My goal is to use performance and storytelling to expose audiences to different cultures, religions, and points of view. Perhaps if we all learned more about each other's lifestyles, the world would be more empathetic and integrated.

So what do you think? Would you like an iTaylor of your own? The iTaylor College Edition is now available for pre-order. It delivers next fall.

"Perfect as the wing of a bird may be, it will never enable the bird to fly if unsupported by the air." --Ivan Pavlov

Upon graduation, I will be able to analyze medieval Spanish poems using literary terms and cultural context, describe the electronegativity trends on the periodic table, and identify when to use logarithmic differentiation to simplify a derivative problem. Despite knowing how to execute these very particular tasks, I currently fail to understand how to change a tire, how to do my taxes efficiently, or how to obtain a good insurance policy. A factory-model school system that has been left essentially unchanged for nearly a century has been the driving force in my educational development.

I have been conditioned to complete tasks quickly, efficiently, and with an advanced understanding. I measured my self-worth as my ability to outdo my peers academically, thinking my scores were the only aspect that defined me; and they were. I was getting everything right. Then, I ran for Student Government and failed. Rejection. I didn’t even make it past the first round of cuts. How could that be? I was statistically a smart kid with a good head on my shoulders, right? Surely someone had to have made a mistake. Little did I know, this was my first exposure to meaning beyond numbers.

As I was rejected from StuGo for the second year in a row, I discovered I had been wrongfully measuring my life through numbers--my football statistics, my test scores, my age, my height (I’m short). I had the epiphany that oh wait, maybe it was my fault that I had never prioritized communication skills, or open-mindedness (qualities my fellow candidates possessed). Maybe it was me. That must be why I always had to be the one to approach people during my volunteer hours at the public library to offer help--no one ever asked me for it. I resolved to alter my mindset, taking a new approach to the way I lived. From now on I would emphasize qualitative experiences over quantitative skills.

I had never been more uncomfortable. I forced myself to learn to be vulnerable by asking questions even if I was terrified of being wrong. My proficiency in using data evidence could not teach me how to communicate with young children at church, nor could my test scores show me how to be more open to criticism. The key to all of these skills, I was to discover, happened to be learning from those around me. Turns out, I couldn’t do everything by myself.

The process of achieving this new mindset came through the cultivation of relationships. I became fascinated by the new perspectives each person in my life could offer if I really took the time to connect. Not only did I improve my listening skills, but I began to consider the big-picture consequences my engagements could have. People interpret situations differently due to their own cultural contexts, so I had to learn to pay more attention to detail to understand every point of view. I took on the state of what I like to call collaborative independence, and to my delight, I was elected to StuGo after my third year of trying.

Not long ago, I would have fallen apart at the presence of any uncertainty. As I further accept and advance new life skills, the more I realize how much remains uncertain in the world. After all, it is quite possible my future job doesn’t exist yet, and that’s okay. I can’t conceivably plan out my entire life at the age of 17, but what I can do is prepare myself to take on the unknown, doing my best to accompany others. Hopefully, my wings continue enabling me to fly, but it is going to take more than just me and my wings; I have to continue putting my faith in the air around me.

My mom opened Kanishka’s Gastropub in 2013. I was ecstatic. We would become the first Mother-Son Indian duo on Food Network peeling potatoes, skinning chicken, and grinding spices, sharing our Bengali recipes with the world.

However, the restaurant tore apart my parent’s relationship. Two years after opening, my dad started coming home late most nights, plastered from “happy hour with work colleagues.” My mom, trying to balance her day job at Kaiser and owning a restaurant, poured her stress on me,“What the hell is wrong with you! Always watching YouTube and never talking!”

The worst time came when my parents tried to fix their relationship. Repeated date nights induced more arguments. Enduring the stress of her restaurant, my father, and her mistakes, my mom attempted to end her life. Fortunately, I found her just in time.

Over the next two years, things were at times still hard, but gradually improved. My parents decided to start anew, took some time apart, then got back together. My mom started to pick me up from activities on time and my dad and I bonded more, watching Warriors and 49ers games.

But at times I still had to emotionally support my mom to avoid sudden India trips, or put my siblings to bed if my parents weren’t home at night. Over time, I found it difficult being my family’s glue. I wanted back the family I had before the restaurant--the one that ate Luchi Mongsho together every Sunday night.

So I looked for comfort in creation. I began spending more time in our garage, carefully constructing planes from sheets of foam. I found purpose balancing the fuselage or leveling the ailerons to precisely 90 degrees. I loved cutting new parts and assembling them perfectly. Here, I could fix all the mistakes.

In high school, I slowly began to forge a community of creators with my peers. Sophomore year, I started an engineering club and found that I had a talent for  managing people and encouraging them to create an idea even if it failed. I also learned how to take feedback and become more resilient. Here, I could nerd-out about warp drives and the possibility of anti-matter without being ignored. I would give a weekly report on new technology and we would have hour-long conversations about the various uses a blacker material could have.

While building a community at school rebuilt my confidence, I still found I enjoyed being alone at times. While driving in my car, I’d let my mind wander to movies like Big Hero Six and contemplate if a zero-friction bike really was possible. I’d create ideas like an AI highway system that tells drivers exactly when to switch lanes based on timing and calculus to prevent braking from nearby cars. Or I’d blueprint a new classroom with interactive desks, allowing students to dive deep into historical events like a VR game. I found outlining complex ideas like these sometimes provide insights into something I’m researching or could one day materialize into future projects.

Looking back (and perhaps inadvertently), the conflicts from the restaurant days have taught me valuable lessons. Helping my mom through her relationship taught me to watch out for those in emotional distress. Spending nights alone made me more independent--after all, it was then that I signed up for advanced math and programming courses and decided to apply for software internships. Most of all, seeing my mom start her restaurant from no food-industry experience inspired me to found two clubs and a Hydrogen Car Team.

Even though we eat Luchi Monsho on a monthly basis now, I know my family will never be the way it was. My mom and I won’t become a Food Network mother-son duo. I can’t fix all the mistakes. But I can use them to improve the present.

In 8th grade while doing a school project I Googled my dad's name and it came up in US military documents posted on the Snowden/NSA documents on WikiLeaks. I stayed up all night reading through documents related to Army support contracts in Iraq and Kuwait in 2003. I asked my dad about it the next day and he said, "It was a mistake I made that has been resolved." Turns out it hadn't been.

Saudi Arabia in the 2000s wasn’t the most ideal place to grow up. I was always scared of terrorist groups such as al-Qaeda. My school was part of the US Consulate in Dhahran, and when I was in the 8th grade it was threatened by ISIS. Violence has always surrounded me and haunted me.

After 14 years of living in a region destroyed by violence, I was sent away to boarding school in a region known for peace, Switzerland. That year my father was found guilty and imprisoned for the charges related to his Army support contract. I felt as if I was Edgar in Shakespeare’s King Lear and this could not get worse, but yet it did.

My parents got divorced and my childhood home was bulldozed to the ground by the Saudi government after my father was sent to prison. My mom had always been a hub of stability, but she was too overwhelmed to support me. I started eating to cope with my anxiety and gained 100 pounds in a year and a half. As I gained weight, my health started to deteriorate, and my grades started to drop.

Things began to change at the beginning of my sophomore year, however, when I met my new roommate, Nico. He had grown up with someone whose father was also in prison, and was able to help me better understand the issues I was facing. Through my friendship with Nico, I learned how to open up and get support from my friends.

I started to make new friends with more people at my school and was surprised to find out that 90% of their parents were divorced. Because we faced similar issues, we were able to support one and other, share tactics, and give advice. One of my friends, John, gave me advice on how to help my mother emotionally by showing her love, something I hadn’t been able to do before. My friends gave me a family and a home, when my own family was overwhelmed and my home was gone.

Slowly, I put my life back on track. I started playing basketball, began working on a CubeSAT, learned to program, changed my diet, and lost all the weight I had gained.

 Now my friends in Switzerland come to me asking me for advice and help, and I feel as if I am a vital member of our community. My close friend Akshay recently started stressing about whether his parents were going to get divorced. With John’s advice, I started checking in on Akshay, spending more time with him, and coaching him before and after he talked to his parents.

Leaving home in the beginning of my adolescence, I was sent out on a path of my own. While for some, high school is the best time of their lives, for me, high school has represented some of the best and, hopefully, worst times. Even with the struggles I’ve faced with my family, I am grateful for this path. It has brought me to a place that I only thought was fictional. In this new place I feel like a real person, with real emotions. This place is somewhere where I can express myself freely and be who I want to be. I am a much stronger, healthier, and more resilient person than I was two years ago. While it hasn’t been easy, I am glad to be where I am today

This essay was written for the U of Chicago "Create your own prompt" essay. The author included the following explanatory note:

I plan to double major in biochemistry and English and my main essay explains my passion for the former; here is a writing sample that illustrates my enthusiasm for the latter.

In my AP Literature class, my teacher posed a question to which students had to write a creative response. My response is framed around the ideas of Plato’s “Allegory of the Cave.”

Q: Why did the chicken cross the road?

A: A manicured green field of grass blades cut to perfectly matched lengths; a blue expanse ornamented with puffy cotton clouds; an immaculately painted red barn centered exactly at the top of a hill--the chicken gazes contentedly at his picturesque world. Within an area surrounded by a shiny silver fence, he looks around at his friends: roosters pecking at a feast of grains and hens lounging on luxurious cushions of hay. As the nice man in a plaid shirt and blue jeans collects the hens’ eggs, the chicken feels an overwhelming sense of indebtedness to him for providing this idyllic lifestyle.

On a day as pristine as all the others, the chicken is happily eating his lunchtime meal as the nice man carefully gathers the smooth white eggs when it notices that the man has left one behind. Strangely located at the empty end of the metal enclosure, highlighted by the bright yellow sun, the white egg appears to the chicken different from the rest. The chicken moves towards the light to tacitly inform the man of his mistake. But then the chicken notices a jagged gray line on the otherwise flawless egg. Hypnotized and appalled, the chicken watches as the line turns into a crack and a small beak attached to a fuzzy yellow head pokes out. Suddenly a shadow descends over the chicken and the nice man snatches the egg--the baby chick--and stomps off.

The chicken--confused, betrayed, disturbed--slowly lifts its eyes from the now empty ground. For the first time, it looks past the silver fence of the cage and notices an unkempt sweep of colossal brown and green grasses opposite its impeccably crafted surroundings. Cautiously, it inches closer to the barrier, farther from the unbelievable perfection of the farm, and discovers a wide sea of black gravel.  Stained with gray stones and marked with yellow lines, it separates the chicken from the opposite field.

The curious chicken quickly shuffles to Mother Hen, who has just settled on to her throne of hay and is closing her eyes. He is sure that the always composed and compassionate chicken will help him make sense of what he’s just seen.

“Mother Hen, Mother Hen! I-I just saw one of those eggs, cracking, and there was a small yellow bird inside. It was a baby. Are those eggs that the nice man takes away babies? And that black ground! What is it?” the chicken blurts out.

Her eyes flick open. “BOK BOK! Don’t you ever dare speak of what you have seen again,” Mother Hen snaps in a low and violent whisper, “or all of this will be taken away.” Closing her eyes again, she dismisses the chicken.

Frozen in disbelief, the chicken tries to make sense of her harsh words. It replays the incident in its head. “All the food, the nice soft hay, the flawless red barn--maybe all of this isn’t worth giving up. Maybe Mother Hen is right. She just wants to protect me from losing it all.” The chicken replays the incident again. “But it was a baby. What if it was hers? She still wouldn’t care. She’s being selfish; all she cares about is this perfect life.” A final replay, and the chicken realizes and accepts that Mother Hen knows, has known, that the man is doing something wrong; yet she has yielded to the cruelty for her own comfort. A fissure in the chicken’s unawareness, a plan begins to hatch. The chicken knows it must escape; it has to get to the other side.

“That man in the plaid shirt is stealing the eggs from their mothers again,” the chicken thinks the next day as he unlocks the cage. Then the man reaches into the wooden coop, his back to the entrance. “Now!” At its own cue, the chicken scurries towards the opening and exits unseen. With a backwards glance at his friends, the chicken feels a profound sadness and pity for their ignorance. It wants to urge them to open their eyes, to see what they are sacrificing for materialistic pleasures, but he knows they will not surrender the false reality. Alone, the chicken dashes away.

The chicken stands at the line between green grass and black gravel. As it prepares to take its first step into the unknown, a monstrous vehicle with 18 wheels made of metal whizzes by, leaving behind a trail of gray exhaust. Once it regains its breath, it moves a few inches onto the asphalt. Three more speeding trucks stop its chicken heart.

“I can’t do this,” it says to itself. “These monsters are a sign. They’re telling me to go back. Besides, a few lost chicks aren’t so bad. The man’s not that evil. He gives us food, and a home.”

But the chicken dismisses the cowardly voice in its head, reminding itself of the injustice back in the deceptively charming prison. Over the next several hours, it learns to strategically position itself so that it is in line with the empty space between the tires of passing trucks. It reaches the yellow dashes. A black blanket gradually pushes away the glowing sun and replaces it with diamond stars and a glowing crescent. It reaches the untouched field.

With a deep breath, the chicken steps into the swathe, a world of tall beige grass made brown by the darkness. Unsure of what it may discover, it determines to simply walk straight through the brush, out on to the other side. For what seems like forever, it continues forward, as the black sky turns to purple, then blue, then pink. Just as the chicken begins to regret its journey, the grass gives way to a vast landscape of trees, bushes, flowers--heterogeneous and variable, but nonetheless perfect. In a nearby tree, the chicken spots two adult birds tending to a nest of babies--a natural dynamic of individuals unaltered by corrupt influence.

And then it dawns on him. It has escaped from a contrived and perverted domain as well as its own unawareness; it has arrived in a place where the pure order of the world reigns.

“I know the truth now,” it thinks to himself as the sun rises. “But here, in Nature, it is of no use. Back home, I need to try to foster awareness among my friends, share this understanding with them. Otherwise, I am as cruel as the man in the plaid shirt, taking away the opportunity to overcome ignorance.”

“I must return now; I have to get to the other side.”

Prompt: Dear Christian, the admissions staff at the University of Chicago would like to inform you that your application has been “put on the line.” We have one spot left and can’t decide if we should admit you or another equally qualified applicant. To resolve the matter, please choose one of the following:

Rock, paper, or scissors.

You will be notified of our decision shortly.

Response:

Rock beats scissors, scissors beats paper, and paper beats rock.  Wait... paper beats rock? Since when has a sheet of loose leaf paper ever defeated a solid block of granite? Do we assume that the paper wraps around the rock, smothering the rock into submission? When exposed to paper, is rock somehow immobilized, unable to fulfill its primary function of smashing scissors?  What constitutes defeat between two inanimate objects?

Maybe it’s all a metaphor for larger ideals. Perhaps paper is rooted in the symbolism of diplomacy while rock suggests coercion. But does compromise necessarily trump brute force? And where do scissors lie in this chain of symbolism?

I guess the reasoning behind this game has a lot to do with context. If we are to rationalize the logic behind this game, we have to assume some kind of narrative, an instance in which paper might beat rock. Unfortunately, I can’t argue for a convincing one.

As with rock-paper-scissors, we often cut our narratives short to make the games we play easier, ignoring the intricate assumptions that keep the game running smoothly. Like rock-paper-scissors, we tend to accept something not because it’s true, but because it’s the convenient route to getting things accomplished. We accept incomplete narratives when they serve us well, overlooking their logical gaps. Other times, we exaggerate even the smallest defects and uncertainties in narratives we don’t want to deal with. In a world where we know very little about the nature of “Truth,” it’s very easy—and tempting—to construct stories around truth claims that unfairly legitimize or delegitimize the games we play.

Or maybe I’m just making a big deal out of nothing...

Fine. I’ll stop with the semantics and play your game.

But who actually wants to play a game of rock-paper-scissors?  After all, isn’t it just a game of random luck, requiring zero skill and talent? That’s no way to admit someone!

Wrong.

Studies have shown that there are winning strategies to rock-paper-scissors by making critical assumptions about those we play against before the round has even started. Douglas Walker, host of the Rock-Paper-Scissors World Championships (didn’t know that existed either), conducted research indicating that males will use rock as their opening move 50% of the time, a gesture Walker believes is due to rock’s symbolic association with strength and force. In this sense, the seemingly innocuous game of rock-paper-scissors has revealed something quite discomforting about gender-related dispositions in our society. Why did so many males think that brute strength was the best option? If social standards have subliminally influenced the way males and females play rock-paper-scissors, than what is to prevent such biases from skewing more important decisions? Should your decision to go to war or to feed the hungry depend on your gender, race, creed, etc?

Perhaps the narratives I spoke of earlier, the stories I mistakenly labeled as “semantics,” carry real weight in our everyday decisions. In the case of Walker’s study, men unconsciously created an irrational narrative around an abstract rock. We all tell slightly different narratives when we independently consider notions ranging from rocks to war to existence. It is ultimately the unconscious gaps in these narratives that are responsible for many of the man-made problems this world faces. In order for the “life of the mind” to be a worthwhile endeavor, we must challenge the unconscious narratives we attach to the larger games we play—the truths we tell (or don’t tell), the lessons we learn (or haven’t really learned), the people we meet (or haven’t truly met).

But even after all of this, we still don’t completely understand the narrative behind rock-paper-scissors.

I guess it all comes down to who actually made this silly game in the first place... I’d like to think it was some snotty 3rd grader, but then again, that’s just another incomplete narrative.

Everyone belongs to many different communities and/or groups defined by (among other things) shared geography, religion, ethnicity, income, cuisine, interest, race, ideology, or intellectual heritage. Choose one of the communities to which you belong, and describe that community and your place within it.

Here's the essay:

I look around my room, dimly lit by an orange light. On a desk in the left corner, a framed picture of an Asian family is beaming their smiles, buried among US history textbooks and The Great Gatsby. A Korean ballad streams from a pair of tiny computer speakers. Pamphlets of American colleges are scattered about on the floor. A cold December wind wafts a strange infusion of ramen and leftover pizza. On the wall in the far back, a Korean flag hangs besides a Led Zeppelin poster.

Do I consider myself Korean or American?

A few years back, I would have replied: “Neither.” The frustrating moments of miscommunication, the stifling homesickness, and the impossible dilemma of deciding between the Korean or American table in the dining hall, all fueled my identity crisis.

Standing in the “Foreign Passports” section at JFK, I have always felt out of place. Sure, I held a Korean passport in my hands, and I loved kimchi and Yuna Kim and knew the Korean Anthem by heart. But I also loved macaroni and cheese and LeBron and knew all the Red Hot Chili Peppers songs by heart. Deep inside, I feared that I would simply be labeled as what I am categorized at airport customs: a foreigner in all places.

This ambiguity of existence, however, has granted me the opportunity to absorb the best of both worlds. Take a look at my dorm room. This mélange of cultures in my East-meets-West room embodies the diversity that characterizes my international student life.

I have learned to accept my “ambiguity” as “diversity,” as a third-culture student embracing both identities in this diverse community that I am blessed to be a part of.

Do I consider myself Korean or American?

Now, I can proudly answer: “Both.”

This past summer, I had the privilege of participating in the University of Notre Dame’s Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) program . Under the mentorship of Professor Wendy Bozeman and Professor Georgia Lebedev from the department of Biological Sciences, my goal this summer was to research the effects of cobalt iron oxide cored (CoFe2O3) titanium dioxide (TiO2) nanoparticles as a scaffold for drug delivery, specifically in the delivery of a compound known as curcumin, a flavonoid known for its anti-inflammatory effects. As a high school student trying to find a research opportunity, it was very difficult to find a place that was willing to take me in, but after many months of trying, I sought the help of my high school biology teacher, who used his resources to help me obtain a position in the program.

Using equipment that a high school student could only dream of using, I was able to map apoptosis (programmed cell death) versus necrosis (cell death due to damage) in HeLa cells, a cervical cancer line, after treating them with curcumin-bound nanoparticles. Using flow cytometry to excite each individually suspended cell with a laser, the scattered light from the cells helped to determine which cells were living, had died from apoptosis or had died from necrosis. Using this collected data, it was possible to determine if the curcumin and/or the nanoparticles had played any significant role on the cervical cancer cells. Later, I was able to image cells in 4D through con-focal microscopy. From growing HeLa cells to trying to kill them with different compounds, I was able to gain the hands-on experience necessary for me to realize once again why I love science.

Living on the Notre Dame campus with other REU students, UND athletes, and other summer school students was a whole other experience that prepared me for the world beyond high school. For 9 weeks, I worked, played and bonded with the other students, and had the opportunity to live the life of an independent college student.

Along with the individually tailored research projects and the housing opportunity, there were seminars on public speaking, trips to the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, and one-on-one writing seminars for the end of the summer research papers we were each required to write. By the end of the summer, I wasn’t ready to leave the research that I was doing. While my research didn’t yield definitive results for the effects of curcumin on cervical cancer cells, my research on curcumin-functionalized CoFe2O4/TiO2 core-shell nanoconjugates indicated that there were many unknown factors affecting the HeLa cells, and spurred the lab to expand their research into determining whether or not the timing of the drug delivery mattered and whether or not the position of the binding site of the drugs would alter the results. Through this summer experience, I realized my ambition to pursue a career in research. I always knew that I would want to pursue a future in science, but the exciting world of research where the discoveries are limitless has captured my heart. This school year, the REU program has offered me a year-long job, and despite my obligations as a high school senior preparing for college, I couldn’t give up this offer, and so during this school year, I will be able to further both my research and interest in nanotechnology.

I believe that humans will always have the ability to rise above any situation, because life is what you make of it. We don’t know what life is or why we are in this world; all we know, all we feel, is that we must protect it anyway we can. Buddha said it clearly: “Life is suffering.” Life is meant to be challenging, and really living requires consistent work and review. By default, life is difficult because we must strive to earn happiness and success.

Yet I've realized that life is fickler than I had imagined; it can disappear or change at any time. Several of my family members left this world in one last beating symphony; heart attacks seem to be a trend in my family. They left like birds; laughing one minute and in a better place the next.

Steve Jobs inspired me, when in his commencement address to Stanford University in 2005, he said "Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma--which is living with the results of other people's thinking." I want to make mistakes, because that is how I learn; I want to follow the beat of my own drum even if it is "out of tune." The important thing is to live without regrets, so when my heart ceases to beat, it will make one last happy note and move on.

I want to live my life daily. Every day I want to live. Every morning when I wake up, I want to be excited by the gift of a new day. I know I am being idealistic and young, and that my philosophy on life is comparable to a calculus limit; I will never reach it. But I won't give up on it because, I can still get infinitely close and that is amazing.

Every day is an apology to my humanity; because I am not perfect, I get to try again and again to "get it right." I breathe the peace of eternity, knowing that this stage is temporary; real existence is continuous. The hourglass of life incessantly trickles on and we are powerless to stop it.

So, I will forgive and forget, love and inspire, experience and satire, laugh and cry, accomplish and fail, live and die. This is how I want to live my life, with this optimistic attitude that every day is a second chance. All the time, we have the opportunity to renew our perspective on life, to correct our mistakes, and to simply move on. Like the phoenix I will continue to rise from the ashes, experienced and renewed. I will not waste time for my life is already in flux.

In all its splendor
The Phoenix rises
In a burst of orange and yellow
It soars in the baby blue sky
Heading to that Great Light
Baptized in the dance of time
Fearless, eternal, beautiful
It releases a breathtaking aurora
And I gasp at the enormity

As soon as the patient room door opened, the worst stench I have ever encountered hit me square in the face. Though I had never smelled it before, I knew instinctively what it was: rotting flesh. A small, elderly woman sat in a wheelchair, dressed in a hospital gown and draped in blankets from the neck down with only her gauze-wrapped right leg peering out from under the green material. Dr. Q began unwrapping the leg, and there was no way to be prepared for what I saw next: gangrene-rotted tissue and blackened, dead toes.

Never before had I seen anything this gruesome–as even open surgery paled in comparison. These past two years of shadowing doctors in the operating room have been important for me in solidifying my commitment to pursue medicine, but this situation proved that time in the operating room alone did not quite provide a complete, accurate perspective of a surgeon’s occupation. Doctors in the operating room are calm, cool, and collected, making textbook incisions with machine-like, detached precision. It is a profession founded solely on skill and technique–or so I thought. This grisly experience exposed an entirely different side of this profession I hope to pursue.

Feeling the tug of nausea in my stomach, I forced my gaze from the terrifying wound onto the hopeful face of the ailing woman, seeking to objectively analyze the situation as Dr. Q was struggling to do himself. Slowly and with obvious difficulty, Dr. Q explained that an infection this severe calls for an AKA: Above the Knee Amputation. In the slow, grave silence that ensued, I reflected on how this desperate patient’s very life rests in the hands of a man who has dedicated his entire life to making such difficult decisions as these. I marveled at the compassion in Dr. Q’s promise that this aggressive approach would save the woman’s life. The patient wiped her watery eyes and smiled a long, sad smile. “I trust you, Doc. I trust you.” She shook Dr. Q’s hand, and the doctor and I left the room.

Back in his office, Dr. Q addressed my obvious state of contemplation: “This is the hardest part about what we do as surgeons,” he said, sincerely. “We hurt to heal, and often times people cannot understand that. However, knowing that I’m saving lives every time I operate makes the stress completely worth it.”

Suddenly, everything fell into place for me. This completely different perspective broadened my understanding of the surgical field and changed my initial perception of who and what a surgeon was. I not only want to help those who are ill and injured, but also to be entrusted with difficult decisions the occupation entails. Discovering that surgery is also a moral vocation beyond the generic application of a trained skill set encouraged me. I now understand surgeons to be much more complex practitioners of medicine, and I am certain that this is the field for me.

In most conventional classrooms, we are taught to memorize material. We study information to regurgitate it on a test and forget it the following day. I thought this was learning. But this past summer, I realized I was wrong.

 I attended the SPK Program, a five-week enrichment program with New Jersey’s best and brightest students. I lived on a college campus with 200 students and studied a topic. I selected Physical Science. On the first day of class, our teacher set a box on the table and poured water into the top, and nothing came out. Then, he poured more water in, and everything slowly came out. We were told to figure out what had happened with no phones or textbooks, just our brains. We worked together to discover in the box was a siphon, similar to what is used to pump gas. We spent the next weeks building solar ovens, studying the dynamic of paper planes, diving into the content of the speed of light and space vacuums, among other things. We did this with no textbooks, flashcards, or information to memorize.

During those five weeks, we were not taught impressive terminology or how to ace the AP Physics exam. We were taught how to think. More importantly, we were taught how to think together. Learning is not memorization or a competition. Learning is working together to solve the problems around us and better our community. To me, learning is the means to a better future, and that’s exciting.

When I was thirteen and visiting Liberia, I contracted what turned out to be yellow fever. I met with the local doctor, but he couldn’t make a diagnosis simply because he didn't have access to blood tests and because symptoms such as “My skin feels like it’s on fire” matched many tropical diseases. Luckily, my family managed to drive me several hours away to an urban hospital, where I was treated. Yellow fever shouldn’t be fatal, but in Africa it often is. I couldn’t believe that such a solvable issue could be so severe at the time—so I began to explore.

The exploration led me to the African Disease Prevention Project (ADPP), a non-profit organization associated with several universities. I decided to create the first high school branch of the organization; I liked its unique way of approaching health and social issues. Rather than just raising money and channeling it through third parties, each branch “adopts” one village and travels there to provide for its basic needs. As branch president, I organize events from small stands at public gatherings to 60-person dinner fundraisers in order to raise both money and awareness. I’ve learned how to encourage my peers to meet deadlines, to work around 30 different schedules at once, and to give presentations convincing people why my organization is worth their donation. But overall, ADPP has taught me that small changes can have immense impacts. My branch has helped raise almost $3,000 to build water sanitation plants, construct medical clinics, and develop health education programs in the small village of Zwedru. And the effect doesn’t stop there—by improving one area, our efforts permeate into neighboring villages as they mimic the lifestyle changes that they observe nearby—simple things, like making soap available—can have a big effect. The difference between ADPP and most other organizations is its emphasis on the basics and making changes that last. Working towards those changes to solve real life problems is what excites me.

I found that the same idea of change through simple solutions also rang true during my recent summer internship at Dr. Martin Warner’s lab at UCLA. Dr. Martin’s vision involves using already available digital technologies to improve the individualization of healthcare. By using a person’s genome to tailor a treatment for them or using someone’s personal smartphone as a mobile-monitor to remotely diagnose symptoms, everyday technology is harnessed to make significant strides forward. At the lab, I focused on parsing through medical databases and writing programs that analyze cancerous genomes to find relationships between certain cancers and drugs. My analysis resulted in a database of information that physicians can use to prescribe treatments for their patients’ unique cancerous mutations. Now, a pancreatic cancer patient does not need to be the “guinea-pig” for a prototype drug to have a shot at survival: a doctor can choose the best treatment by examining the patient individually instead of relying on population-wide trends. For the first time in my science career, my passion was going to have an immediate effect on other people, and to me, that was enthralling. Dr. Martin’s lab and his book, Digital Healthcare: A New Age of Medicine, have shown me that changing something as simple as how we treat a disease can have a huge impact. I have found that the search for the holy grail of a “cure for cancer” is problematic as nobody knows exactly what it is or where to look—but we can still move forward without it.

Working with Project ADPP and participating in medical research have taught me to approach problems in a new way. Whether it’s a complex genetic disease or a tropical fever, I’ve found that taking small steps often is the best approach. Finding those steps and achieving them is what gets me excited and hungry to explore new solutions in the future.

The phenomenon of interdependency, man depending on man for survival, has shaped centuries of human civilization. However, I feel, the youth of today are slowly disconnecting from their community. For the past few years, human connection has intrigued me and witnessing the apathy of my peers has prompted me to engage in various leadership positions in order to motivate them to complete community service and become active members of society.

Less than a year before ninth grade began, my cousin and close friend passed away from cancer, and in the hodge-podge of feelings, I did not emotionally deal with either death. However, a simple tale helped me deal with these deaths and take action.

I was never fully aware of how closely humans rely upon each other until I read The Fall of Freddy the Leaf by Leo Buscaglia in freshman year. The allegory is about a leaf that changes with the seasons, finally dying in the winter, realizing that his purpose was to help the tree thrive. After reading it, I was enlightened on the cycle of life and realized the tremendous impact my actions had on others.

Last year, I joined the American Cancer Society‘s Relay for Life, a twenty-four-hour relay walk-a-thon designed to raise funds for cancer research and create awareness about its early detection. I started a team at school, gathered thirty students and chaperones, and raised $800 for the cause. I watched as each student created friendships with other students on our team and members of the Phoenix community. This year, I let a team in the relay for life again with the schoolwide team of 95 members, and we raised $2,900 for the cure for cancer. At first the group leader ship consisted of only my advisor in me; however, I gained the support of the administrators. I spent well over an hour a day preparing for the event, and it was all worth it!

The Sonora Eagles were students of different grade levels, ethnicities, socioeconomic backgrounds, and educational ability. We joked and played football while volunteering. The most important moment occurred during the night’s luminaria ceremony, during which cancer patients of the past and present were commemorated. Our whole team gathered around, and I asked people to share how they have been affected by cancer. As I went through the crowd, their faces illuminated by candlelight, their cheeks were wet with cleansing tears, I realize the impact I had on them, the purpose I was fulfilling; but most importantly, I realized the impact they had had on me. The Sonora Eagles were my means for dealing with the death of my loved ones to cancer.

The theme for relay for life is a hope for a cure. Through this experience as a leader, I have come to realize, as a community, we hope together, we dream together, we work together, and we succeed together. This is the phenomenon of interdependency, the interconnectedness of life, the pivotal reason for human existence. I have continued this momentum by starting a Sonora High School chapter of American Cancer Society Youth, a club dedicated to youth involvement and several aspects of the American Cancer Society, including the recent Arizona Proposition 45.

Each one of us leaves find a legacy as we for fill our purpose in life. I believe my purpose as a student is to encourage others to become active community members and motivate them to reach new heights. As a student of the University of California, I will contribute my understanding of the human condition and student motivation to help strengthen student relationships within the campus and throughout the community.

My fingers know instinctively, without a thought.  They turn the dial, just as they have hundreds of times before, until a soft, metallic click echoes into my eardrum and triggers their unconscious stop.  I exultantly thrust open my locker door, exposing its deepest bowels candidly to the wide halls of the high school.  The bright lights shine back, brashly revealing every crevice, nook, and cranny, gleaming across its scintillating, bare surfaces.  On this first day of senior year, I set out upon my task.  I procure an ordinary plastic grocery bag from my backpack.  The contents inside collectively represent everything about me in high school – they tell a story, one all about me.

I reach in and let my fingers trail around the surfaces of each object.  I select my first prey arbitrarily, and as I raise my hand up to eye level, I closely examine this chosen one.  A miniature Flamenco dancer stares back at me from the confines of the 3-D rectangular magnet, half popping out as if willing herself to come to life.  Instantly, my mind transports me back a few summers before, when I tapped my own heels to traditional music in Spain.  I am reminded of my thirst to travel, to explore new cultures utterly different from my familiar home in Modesto, California.  I have experienced study abroad in Spain, visited my father’s hometown in China five times, and traveled to many other places such as Paris.  As a result, I have developed a restlessness inside me, a need to move on from four years in the same high school, to take advantage of diverse opportunities whenever possible, and to meet interesting people.

I take out the next magnet from my plastic bag.  This one shows a panoramic view of the city of Santa Barbara, California.  Here, I recall spending six weeks in my glory, not only studying and learning, but actually pursuing new knowledge to add to the repertoire of mankind.  I could have easily chosen to spend my summer lazing about; in fact, my parents tried to persuade me into taking a break.  Instead, I chose to do advanced molecular biology research at Stanford University.  I wanted to immerse myself in my passion for biology and dip into the infinitely rich possibilities of my mind.  This challenge was so rewarding to me, while at the same time I had the most fun of my life, because I was able to live with people who shared the same kind of drive and passion as I did.

After sticking up my magnets on the locker door, I ran my fingers across the bottom of the bag, and I realized that one remained.  It was a bold, black square, with white block letters proclaiming my motto, “Live the Life You Imagine.”  In my four years at Cornell University, I will certainly continue to live life as I imagine, adding my own flavor to the Cornell community, while taking away invaluable experiences of my own.

As I sip a mug of hot chocolate on a dreary winter’s day, I am already planning in my mind what I will do the next summer.  I briefly ponder the traditional routes, such as taking a job or spending most of the summer at the beach.  However, I know that I want to do something unique.  I am determined to even surpass my last summer, in which I spent one month with a host family in Egypt and twelve days at a leadership conference in New York City  The college courses I have taken at Oregon State University since the summer after 7th grade will no longer provide the kind of challenge I seek.

Six months later, I step off the airplane to find myself surrounded by palm trees, with a view of the open-air airport.  I chuckle to myself about the added bonus of good weather, but I know I have come to Palo Alto, California, with a much higher purpose in mind.  I will spend six weeks here in my glory, not only studying and learning, but actually pursuing new knowledge to add to the repertoire of mankind.  Through the Stanford Institutes of Medicine Summer Research Program, I will earn college credit by conducting original molecular biology research, writing my own research paper, and presenting my findings in a research symposium.

I decided to spend my summer doing research because I knew that I liked scientific thought, and that I would passionately throw myself into any new challenge.  I always want to know more – to probe deeper into the laws of the universe, to explore the power and beauty of nature, to solve the most complicated problems.  I have an insatiable curiosity and a desire to delve deeper down in the recesses of my intellect.  At the Summer Research Program, I found out how much I enjoy thinking critically, solving problems, and applying my knowledge to the real world.

While pursuing research in California, I was also able to meet many similarly motivated, interesting people from across the United States and abroad.  As I learned about their unique lifestyles, I also shared with them the diverse perspectives I have gained from my travel abroad and my Chinese cultural heritage.  I will never forget the invaluable opportunity I had to explore California along with these bright people.

I could have easily chosen to spend that summer the traditional way; in fact, my parents even tried to persuade me into taking a break.  Instead, I chose to do molecular biology research at Stanford University.  I wanted to immerse myself in my passion for biology and dip into the infinitely rich possibilities of my mind.  This challenge was so rewarding to me, while at the same time I had the most fun of my life, because I was able to live with people who share the same kind of drive and passion as I do.

When I turned twelve, my stepdad turned violent. He became a different person overnight, frequently getting into fights with my mom. I didn’t deal with it well, often crying to my mom’s disappointment, afraid that my life would undo itself in a matter of seconds. You might say that my upbringing was characterized by my parents morphing everyday objects into weapons and me trying to morph into the perfect white walls that stood unmoving while my family fell apart.

This period in my life is not a sob story, but rather, the origin story of my love of writing. During a fight once, my stepdad left the house to retrieve a baseball bat from his truck. He didn’t use it, but I’ll never forget the fear that he would, how close he’d gotten. And in that moment, I did not cry as I was prone to do, but I pulled out a book, and experienced a profound disappearance, one that would always make me associate reading with escapism and healing.

Soon I came to write, filling up loose ruled paper with words, writing in the dark when we didn’t have money to pay for electricity. And as I got older, I began to think that there must be others who were going through this, too. I tried to find them. I created an anonymous blog that centered what it meant for a teenager to find joy even as her life was in shambles. In this blog I kept readers updated with what I was learning, nightly yoga to release tension from the day and affirmations in the morning to counter the shame that was mounting as a result of witnessing weekly my inability to make things better at home.

At that time, I felt uncertain about who I was because I was different online than I was at home or even at school where I was editor of my high school literary journal. It took me a while to understand that I was not the girl who hid in the corner making herself small; I was the one who sought to connect with others who were dealing with the same challenges at home, thinking that maybe in our isolation we could come together. I was able to make enough from my blog to pay some bills in the house and give my mom the courage to kick my stepfather out. When he exited our home, I felt a wind go through it, the house exhaling a giant sigh of relief.

I know this is not the typical background of most students. Sharing my story with like-minded teens helped me understand what I have to offer: my perspective, my unrelenting optimism. Because even as I’ve seen the dark side of what people are capable of, I have also been a star witness to joy and love. I do not experience despair for long because I know that this is just one chapter in a long novel, one that will change the hearts of those who come across it. And I can’t wait to see how it will end.

I was a straight A student until I got to high school, where my calm evenings cooking dinner for my siblings turned into hours watching videos, followed by the frantic attempt to finish homework around 4 am. When I got an F on a chemistry pop quiz my mom sat me down to ask me what was happening. I told her I couldn’t focus or keep track of all my materials for classes. I thought she would call me lazy, accuse me of wasting the gift of being an American that she and my father gave me. Instead, she looked around at the walls covered in sticky notes, the index cards scattered on the computer desk, the couch, the table, and she said, “How are your friends managing it?”

It turned out while my peers were struggling to juggle the demands of high school it didn’t seem like they were working as hard to complete simple tasks. They only had to put things in a planner, not make sure the deadlines were placed in multiple locations, physical and digital. At my next doctor’s appointment my mom mentioned that I had a learning problem, but the doctor shook his head and said that I didn’t seem to have ADHD. I was just procrastinating, it’s natural.

My mom took off from her grocery store job to take me to two more appointments to ask about ADHD, the term the doctor had used, but other doctors were not willing to listen. I had As in every class except for World Literature. But I knew something was wrong. After our third doctor visit, I worked with the librarian after school to sift through research on ADHD and other learning disabilities until we came across the term executive functioning. Armed with knowledge, we went to a new doctor, and before my mom could insist that we get testing or get referred to a specialist, the doctor handed us a signed referral. She asked me about the folder in my hand. I told her it was full of my research. My mom mentioned that some doctors had refused to refer us to a specialist because my grades were too high. “It’s because we’re Asian,” she added.

I was shocked at this revelation. The last three doctors had mumbled something about grades but had never said a thing about race. Before I could deny it fervently, the doctor, who was from Taiwan, nodded sympathetically. She said it’s common to miss learning disabilities among different races due to biases. And some adolescents learn to mask symptoms by building systems. “You don’t have to prove anything to me. I believe you should get tested.” My mom thanked her fervently and the doctor said to her, “She’s going to be a great lawyer.”

The semester following the confirmation of my learning disability diagnosis was challenging to say the least. My school switched me out of all of my IB courses to “accommodate my special needs,” and I went back to the library, working with the librarian with numerous index cards and stacks of books to make a case for discrimination. The librarian, who had become my close confidante, introduced me to an academic tutor who specialized in learning disabilities and taught me skills like using redundancy and time management to make it easier for me to grapple with moving parts. He noted that with ADHD, the problem wasn’t always the inability to focus but rather the difficulty focusing without adequate perceived reward. It wasn’t that I was not capable but that I had to make myself sufficiently interested or reiterate why something mattered. This reframe changed my life, and when I came back to the library with my new schedule in hand, the most advanced courses my school had to offer, the librarian said, “You’re going to make a great lawyer.”

I smiled and said, “I’ve heard that before.”

My brother and I are exactly one year and one day apart. We look like twins — people confuse us — but we couldn’t be any more different. As children we wore the same clothes, received the same haircut. By the time we got to middle school it was clear that my older brother preferred quiet, indoor activities, while I was a born performer who preferred the theatrical, even when off stage. I took his relative silence to be disinterest and found it offensive. To the chagrin of my parents, we simply didn’t get along.

I didn’t mind having a tense relationship with my brother because I was involved at school. In particular I delved into the world of musical theater in addition to regularly singing solos at our high school choir concerts. I spent hours after school preparing for shows. And when I came home, I practiced as well, falling into a rigorous routine I thought I needed to remain at my best and be competitive for parts.

My bedroom was far enough from my parents so as not to disturb them, but space to practice became an issue with my brother because, well, we shared a room. Imagine him meditating on a window seat while I am belting, trying to sustain a high note. Needless to say, this created tension between us. From my point of view he could have meditated in the living room or while I was at practice, but he wasn’t willing to budge. From his point of view, high school was hard enough without the constant sound of Glee arrangements.

At the start of the semester, I practiced “Circle of Life” for a concert audition. While I could sing it fine in its original key, I had a hard time singing it along with the music because the arrangement of the song we were working on had a key change that was out of my range. I couldn’t change key without my voice cracking as I switched to a head voice. This was the first time I struggled to learn a song, and I was a week from the audition. I was irritable in that period and stopped practicing, declaring I had reached the height of my singing career. My brother experiencing quiet when I got home for the first time in years.

After a couple days of this, when I got home, he asked me to join him in meditation. And feeling my anger at my inability to navigate this song gracefully, I did. It was difficult at first. I was trying to clear my head. Later my brother told me that wasn’t the point. When your mind drifts away, you simply come back, no judgment. I liked the sound of that, and it became my new philosophy. I kept trying at the song, no longer getting angry at myself, and just in time for the audition I was able to maintain power in my voice despite the key change. It was important for me to learn you don’t have to always get everything right the first time and that good things come with continual effort. As for my brother, we no longer argue. I now understand why he prefers the quiet.

My parents are aerospace engineers, humble even as their work helps our society explore new frontiers. They believe that you make a stand through the work that you do, not what you say. This is what they taught me. This is what I believed until my sophomore year when I was confronted with a moment where I could not stay quiet.

I live outside of a major city in a small, rural town that’s majority white but for a small South Asian population. My high school wasn’t diverse by any standards. Some students were openly the children of skinheads. After a racist exchange with a student who insulted her and refused to sit at the same lunch table, my best friend, who was Muslim, did not stand for the pledge of allegiance in homeroom the next day.

I hadn’t heard about the encounter that sparked this move on her part and was surprised when she didn’t stand up beside me, hand against her heart, mouth chanting an oath. She hadn’t mentioned any mounting discomfort to me, nor had I noticed anything. Unlike my “patriotic” peers, I was less upset by her refusal to stand up for the pledge of allegiance and more upset that she didn’t share with me that she was hurting and what she was going to do to protest how she was treated because of her beliefs and the color of her skin.

She was suspended for insubordination and when I called her, she said that surely in this situation I might find a way to think of more than my own feelings. I felt ashamed. It didn’t even occur to me to seek to understand what was behind her decision in the first place. I apologized, asking how to best support her. She said it was just important that I listen and understand that she could not thrive in an environment that promoted sameness. She spoke to me with a vulnerability I had never heard before. At the end of our conversation, I apologized profusely. She said she did not need my words and what she needed from me was to take a stand.

This was the opposite of the belief my parents drilled in me. I felt conflicted at first, as if by speaking about the situation I was doing something wrong. However, my friend had to deal with a reality that I did not. And perhaps taking a stand would allow my institution and everyone in it to learn to be a more inclusive space for everyone. Maybe there was a way to take a stand and to do the necessary work to change things.
